#adventure #completed  [[Tu'narath]] [[Tarto]] [[Master Blip]] [[Saerthe Abizjn]]

### Background

The characters are run through a simulation that covers the basics of spelljamming and space travel, whether by force (if they crash landed in the Military District or angered someone there) or by choice (if recommended by the Commissar, Supreme Commander, or the Caretaker).

### Hook(s)

If The Ring of Siberys adventures results in the players crash landing in the Military District, then they are required to complete this adventure. Otherwise, the Commissar, Supreme Commander, or Caretaker may suggest they take the training course.

### Synopsis

- The characters are to take charge of their own spelljamming ship, plying a magical simulation of Wildspace on a mission to seek out the wreckage of a ship lost in an asteroid cluster.
- The party’s ship is attacked by githyanki pirates hiding amongst the wreckage.
- While attempting the return journey, the party find their rival group’s ship stranded - will they help?
- Afterwards they learn about sabotage at the Naval Docking Towers that leads them to a rogue sect of githyanki, led by a woman named Serezka, who are rivals of the Commissar.

### Scene 1: Setting up the Simulation

The characters are led to the Naval Docking Towers’ Simulations Deck, where they’re briefed on the upcoming training exercise before they’re led into one of the adjoining simulation chambers. The exercise will take them on a virtual journey through Wildspace and pit them in a race against the clock, as they must outperform a competing group of githyanki.

Awaiting the characters in the main hall are two officers: Saerthe Abizin (an astral elf), the Naval Docking Towers Commander, and Tarto (a hadozee), the Naval Docking Towers training officer.

> You arrive at the Simulations Deck at the same time as a group of githyanki, all of you gathering in the main hall where today’s training officer —  Tarto — and her commander —  Saerthe Abizin —  stand waiting. A few members of the other squad murmur excitedly, but a glare from Tarto as she chews her cigar quiets them.
> Saerthe Abizin scans the congregation with silver eyes. Their stern gaze shifts to a wide grin. “Well, this is going to be fun.”

Tarto steps forward to welcome the group and provide the details of the upcoming training exercise. In addition to testing skills and talents, the exercise is also a friendly competition between the two teams, with each squad earning points that are tracked and recorded by the observing officers.

**Assigning Roles**

Saerthe explains that each team must assign crew roles to its members. This training exercise has one mandatory role (Pilot) and several optional roles. A team can have only one Pilot.

Try to limit the players’ discussion of role assignments, and use the Spelljammer Rules to outline the roles and actions.

After roles are assigned, Tarto provides the characters with the main objective of the exercise.

> After a long pull on her cigar, Tarto surveys the assembled crews.
> “Each crew is to navigate their ship through a debris field on the outskirts of the Ring. There, you’re to salvage the captain’s logbook from the wreckage of an abandoned ship, then return to your starting point with your own ship intact.”
> Tarto levels a steely eye and says with a glare, “Intact, not first. Get the mission done well; not quick.”

**Simulation Chambers**

Each simulation chamber is a broad circular space with a domed ceiling, its stone walls carved with arcane runes that fill the area with bright light. Each chamber is equipped with a training version of a spelljamming helm and creates complex illusions designed to test cadets’ speed, skill, and ability to work together in a crisis.

Saerthe Abizin accompanies the characters to a simulation chamber where Mister Blip, the academy’s autognome quartermaster, is preparing the physical aspects of the simulation. Mister Blip hurries over when he sees the characters enter, his eyes shifting to a green color as he greets the cadets as he introduces himself. Mister Blip’s eyes shift to a bright blue as he hurries over to a table set with magical gear and mysterious devices unrecognizable to the characters, reporting that everything is ready to go.

Mister Blip hands the characters two pages of parchment: a Wildspace map that shows the route to their destination, and a crude sketch of the logbook they’re supposed to retrieve. Saerthe then directs the characters to gather around the training helm atop the platform. Once the characters are in position, read or paraphrase the following:

> Saerthe steps back from the platform, holds their palms outward, and begins an incantation. The sigils scrawled along the walls and floors glow brightly, intensifying as the officer weaves their powerful illusion.
> “Good luck, cadets,” Saerthe says, “and don’t be afraid. Though these illusions are realistic, thanks to my arcane prowess, they are just that — illusions.”
> Blue-white lines form around you, etching the shape of a ship deck around the platform upon which you stand. The room then melts away amid an explosion of colors, textures, and sounds that place you on the deck of a ship that is shaped like a gigantic hammerhead shark.

**Simulator Rules**

Each simulation chamber channels powerful illusion magic that adheres to the following rules:

- **Just Like the Real Thing**. The simulation around the characters affects all their senses. Everything looks, feels, and sounds real, with the illusion able to create the sense that the characters are in areas whose dimensions are larger than the room. Everything that happens within the illusion should be treated as if the characters are truly where they appear to be.
- **Illusory Wards**. Characters can’t sense that they are in an illusion, nor can the illusion be dispelled. The detect magic and dispel magic spells don’t register or disrupt the magic of the illusion, nor of the creatures or objects it creates.
- **Damage**. Any character who is reduced to 0 hit points by the simulation falls unconscious but isn’t dying. The character remains unconscious until the simulation ends, at which point the character awakens and gains 1 level of exhaustion from lingering psychic shock.
- **Restored Resources**. When the simulation ends, characters regain all their lost hit points, spell slots, and limited-use powers.

**Taking Off**

Once the illusion begins, the crew must take off and ascend into Wildspace. This requires the character in the Pilot role to succeed on a DC 13 ability check using their spellcasting ability. If the check succeeds, the character uses the spelljamming helm to propel the ship skyward. If the character succeeds on the check on the first try, it counts toward the group’s score in the training exercise (see appendix A). A second attempt at the check succeeds automatically.

### Scene 2: Journey through Wildspace

During their simulated journey, the characters must overcome the challenges described below. A challenge is resolved by having each character make an ability check. If half or more of the characters succeed on the check, the challenge is overcome. Otherwise, the characters fail their initial attempt, and their score is impacted (see appendix A), but any further attempt succeeds automatically, allowing the training exercise (and the journey) to continue.

**Challenge 1: Plotting a Course**

The characters must use their Wildspace map to plot a course to their destination. Have each character make a DC 12 ability check. Each player chooses which check to make based on their character’s role aboard the ship:

Pilot: Intelligence (Investigation) or Wisdom (Survival)

Navigator: Wisdom (Survival) or Charisma (Persuasion)

Other Officers: Strength (Athletics) or Dexterity (Acrobatics)

**Challenge 2: Electrical Storm**

The characters’ ship accelerates to spelljamming speed, racing through Wildspace toward its destination. After a minute or so in this simulated state, the ship returns to its normal flying speed. A school of giant space eels swims past the ship, and each eel discharges a bolt of lightning as it zips by. The ship is caught in the eels’ electrical storm, which starts one or more fires on the deck.

Avoiding the worst of the electrical storm and extinguishing the flames requires each character to make a DC 13 ability check. Each player chooses which check to make based on their character’s role aboard the ship:

Pilot: Intelligence (Arcana) or Wisdom (Survival)

Navigator: Wisdom (Survival) or Charisma (Persuasion)

Other Officer: Strength (Athletics) or Dexterity (Acrobatics)

**Challenge 3: Asteroid Cluster**

Once the space eels are a safe distance away, the ship can resume its journey, traveling rapidly at spelljamming speed. After another minute in this simulated state, the ship arrives at its destination, where the characters discover that the abandoned ship they seek is located at the center of a cluster of asteroids. Reaching the ship safely means navigating a careful route through the asteroids.

Have each character make a DC 13 ability check. Each player chooses which check to make based on their character’s role aboard the ship:

Pilot: Intelligence (Arcana) or Wisdom (Perception)

First Mate: Wisdom (Survival) or Charisma (Persuasion)

Navigator: Strength (Athletics) or Dexterity (Acrobatics)

If the characters fail their initial attempt to avoid the asteroids, the ship is lightly damaged as it grazes an asteroid. This damage becomes relevant later (see “Wildspace Battle” below).

### Scene 3: Salvage Operation

Once their ship passes through the asteroid cluster, the characters reach the wreckage of a flying fish ship, torn apart by the celestial debris. The longer the characters take to locate and claim the captain’s logbook, the more difficult the task becomes. Initiative rolls aren’t necessary but track how many rounds of ability checks it takes for the characters to spot the derelict ship’s logbook.

**Spotting the Logbook**

The wreckage is surrounded by a cloud of silvery dust particles that reduce visibility. After pulling alongside the wreck, characters searching for the logbook must make a DC 16 Wisdom (Perception) check, spotting it if successful. The logbook lays amid debris from the captain’s cabin, all of which bobs in the derelict’s gravity plane. The characters repeat this check each round until the logbook is spotted.

**Retrieving the Logbook**

The next, more difficult task is obtaining the book. While the debris rests in the ship’s gravity plane, it’s not exactly solid ground, and disturbing it could make finding the log difficult. This is a great opportunity for the players’ ingenuity and creativity to shine. Let them come up with their own way of solving the problem, whether it’s using mage hand, tying a rope around a character’s waist and leaping out toward the logbook, or other similar efforts — assigning a DC 13 check using an ability and skill that you deem appropriate. If successful, they are able to retrieve the logbook.

**Leaving the Asteroid Cluster**

Once the logbook is safely on board, the characters can exit the asteroid cluster. Once again, the characters must avoid the asteroids by repeating challenge 3 from the “Journey through Wildspace” section; if the ship was lightly damaged by an asteroid earlier and grazes another asteroid on its way out of the cluster, the ship becomes heavily damaged instead.

### Scene 4: Wildspace Battle

> As your ship steers clear of the asteroids, another ship appears. Its sleek frame is painted in a wild shade of pink and is designed to resemble an immense squid. Starlight reflects off the ship’s hull — illuminating two turret-mounted ballistas rotating slowly to face your ship.

The attacking ship is an old, but reliable, squid ship crewed by githyanki pirates. Having already set their sights on salvaging the derelict, the githyanki don’t take kindly to the characters jumping their claim. The githyanki ship immediately moves into attack position, forcing the characters into battle.

**Hammerhead Ship**

The following statistics are for the characters’ training ship. The ship is equipped with one ballista and two mangonels, each on a rotating mount. The front of the ship also acts as a devastating ram.

Armor Class 15 (wood)
Cargo: 30 tons
Hit Points: 400
Crew: 15
Damage Threshold: 15
Keel/Beam: 250 ft./25 ft.
Speed: Fly 35 ft. (4 mph)
Cost: 40,000 gp
Hit Points. If the ship was lightly damaged in the “Journey through Wildspace” section, it has 300 hit points instead. If the ship was heavily damaged in the “Salvage Operation” section, it has 220 hit points instead.

**Squid Ship**

The following statistics are for the attacking githyanki pirate ship. The ship is equipped with two ballista and a mangonel, each on a rotating mount. The tentacles at the ship’s bow also act as a piercing ram.

Armor Class 15 (wood)
Cargo: 20 tons
Hit Points: 300
Crew: 13
Damage Threshold: 15
Keel/Beam: 250 ft./25 ft.
Speed: Fly 30 ft. (3½ mph)
Cost: 25,000 gp

**Running the Encounter**

Use the following guidance for running and resolving the encounter between the characters’ hammerhead and the githyanki ship.

The githyanki ship is 50 feet away from the hammerhead ship and maintains its distance throughout this encounter, attempting to disable the characters’ ship before the githyanki attempt to board it. While the hammerhead ship is faster than the githyanki ship, the characters will still be in range of its weapons if they choose to flee.

**Evil Shadows**. Two shadows—former crew members of the flying fish ship that lie strewn amid the asteroids—are attracted to the battle as it unfolds. At the start of the fourth round of combat, they appear at the stern of the characters’ ship and attack the nearest creatures. Roll a d20 for the shadows’ initiative, again with no modifier.

**Alternative Scenarios**

Some characters might want to resort to options other than direct ship-to-ship combat when the githyanki ship attacks, with a few examples discussed below. Use your best judgment when adjudicating these tactics, and reward players for great ideas and quick thinking.

**Using Magic**. Certain spells can be used to damage an enemy ship or hamper its crew. A ship’s spelljamming helm or pilot often can’t be targeted without being aboard the enemy ship.

**Boarding**. The characters can board the ship instead of fighting it at a distance. Any such attempt requires the pilot to move the character’s ship within 5 feet of the enemy ship.

Once one or more characters board the githyanki ship, that ship makes only one ballista attack each round. The rest of the crew — six githyanki pirates using the bandit stat block, but which are resistant to psychic damage—leave their stations to defend the ship, taking the characters on in combat. See appendix C for the squid ship’s layout.

**Ending the Encounter**

The encounter ends when one of the following conditions is met:
- The enemy ship is reduced to 100 hit points or fewer, causing it to retreat.
- The enemy ship takes two critical hits, causing it to retreat.
- The characters’ ship moves more than 100 feet away from the enemy ship, at which point the enemy ship breaks off its pursuit and flees.
- The characters’ ship is reduced to 0 hit points. If this occurs, the characters fail the training exercise, and the simulation ends.

### Scene 5: Help!

Provided the characters don’t lose their ship in the training exercise, they can make their return journey once their ship-to-ship battle ends:

> Your ship slows, marking the unexpected presence of something else in the vicinity. It takes just a moment to spot another hammerhead ship in the distance. The other ship is severely damaged and adrift. Every few seconds, bands of electricity ripple out from the center of its hull, dealing further damage to the ship.

If the characters approach the other hammerhead ship, they spot the other team on its deck. No check is needed to tell they’re in trouble.

The characters can choose to leave the other team to their fate with the goal of beating them to the finish line, or they can approach the other ship and evacuate its crew before that ship is destroyed.

### Scene 6: Shattering Illusions

The simulation chambers at the Military Academy have been sabotaged, causing Saerthe’s illusions to erupt with a backlash of energy. This backlash caused the spelljamming helm aboard the other simulated hammerhead ship to malfunction in the last scene.

> The illusion around you ends in a wave of silvery blue light, and you stand within the simulation chamber where your training exercise began. Magical energy ripples like a turbulent cloud around you, reaching out to touch the rune-scribed walls, then exploding outward as bolts of lightning, sending Saerthe, Tarto, and others flying to the ground.

Each character must make a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw, taking 3d8 (`dice:3d8`) lightning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.

**Picking Up the Pieces**

Most of the magical backlash caused by the sabotage was directed at Saerthe Abizin and Tarto, where the two were supervising the training exercises. Both are badly injured.

In addition to tending to their own wounds, the characters can head to the other simulation chamber where the other group was being tested. If the characters failed to save the other group in the last scene, then two of them are critically wounded. Unless they receive magical healing, they die in three rounds. Alternatively, a character who succeeds on a DC 13 Wisdom (Medicine) check is able to stabilize them — provided they do so within three rounds.

**Finding Clues**

Characters can help the officers examine the simulation chambers for signs of sabotage. A character who succeeds on a DC 12 Intelligence (Investigation) or Wisdom (Perception) check notices an odd-shaped metallic plate crudely jammed into the walls of one of the chambers. A search of the other chamber reveals an identical object, with each bearing a jagged sigil carved into it. A detect magic spell reveals powerful magic emanating from both objects. (If the characters don’t find either plate, Mister Blip discovers one of them.)

Once Saerthe Abizin or Tarto are informed, they examine the plate and deduce it to be the cause of the sabotage. In addition, examination of the sigil reveals something to the officers, which the characters can overhear:

> Tarto scowls, chomping down on her cigar. She points to the sigil as she looks to Saerthe Abizin. “That look familiar to you?” 
> Saerthe’s quicksilver eyes scan the object coldly. “Serezka. I should have suspected. It appears that the sect leader’s grudge has become a vendetta. The Commissar must be told.”

If any characters ask about Serezka, they are directed to the Commissar in the Dragon District of Tu'narath, or the Supreme Commander in the Citadel of War.

### Conclusion

Although the training exercises were sabotaged, everyone completed enough of the session to receive their scores. The characters earn points in the training exercise as outlined below.

If the characters earn 6 points or more, they successfully complete the exercise. For winning the competition against the other squad, each character is awarded 100 gp. If they manage to get all 10 points, they pass with flying colors, and get double the award.

If the characters earn fewer than 6 points, Tarto is disappointed in their poor performance, and are told they can go through the simulation again if they need more practice. Regardless, Tarto commends them if they stopped to help the other squad.

**Scoring Rubric**

- [ ]  Plotting a course of the first attempt: 1 point
- [ ]  Mitigating the damage of the electrical storm on the first attempt: 1 point
- [ ]  Entering the asteroid cluster without damaging the ship: 1 point
- [ ]  Exiting the asteroid cluster without damaging the ship: 1 point
- [ ]  Defeating or outrunning the enemy ship: 4 points
- [ ]  Stopping to assist the other squad: 2 points

[https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/sja/trial-by-fire#Part2TestofMettle](https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/sja/trial-by-fire#Part2TestofMettle)