#adventure #completed  [[Ring of Siberys]] [[Aleithilithos]] [[Snett]] [[Ecatzin]] [[Saarys]] [[Kel’i’lec]] [[Serezka]]

### Synopsis

The point of this adventure is to introduce the Ring of Siberys as a safe haven for the characters. Be sure to introduce all of the important characters before the characters leave the Ring. This includes Aleithilithos the Caretaker Dragon, Zetch’r’r the Commissar (leader) of the city, Kel’i’lec the Supreme Commander of the githyanki military, and Ecatzin the couatl (who should introduce the Wildspace Orrery that Astra is carrying).

Ideally the characters should move on to Trial By Fire after this, in order to learn the basics of spelljamming.

### Entering the Ring

The Ring of Siberys is the source of arcane energy, and therefore has the potential to overload unprotected enchantments: until players figure out how to protect against this surge, all magical systems can burn out and shut down in the vicinity of the Ring of Siberys.

When the players approach the Ring, have the PIlot roll a Constitution saving throw, with the DC being 16 the first time and reducing by 2 each time the ship approaches the Ring. On a failed save, the spelljamming helm is overwhelmed by the Ring - the Pilot takes 42 (12d6) psychic damage, and the helm is suppressed for 2d10 hours. On a successful save on the first visit, the creature takes half as much damage, and the helm is suppressed for 2d10 minutes instead of 2d10 hours. Either way, the spelljamming helm can’t be used for a period of time, which will cause the ship to drift. The Navigator or another officer should roll an Intelligence check to determine where the ship ends up, based on the table below.

| INT | Result |
| --- | --- |
| 1-8 | The ship spins out and lands at one of the Military District docks in Tu'narath. See “Navigating the Military District” below. |
| 9-19 | The ship drifts without too much direction change, and ends up safely docking at the Merchant District in Tu'narath. See “The Merchant District” below. |
| 20+ | The captain/navigator is able to regain full control of the ship without using the Helm, and direct it wherever they would like. Read the description below. |

> A beautiful glowing golden ring can be seen surrounding your entire home planet, which you can now observe from a distance that no other humanoid likely has. As you drift closer to the Ring of Siberys you can make out uncanny detail - including an entire city built upon it! The city appears to be split into districts, and you can make out several dock areas. One juts out from what seems to be a market district, with buildings, tents, and roads. Another district has several fortresses, bristling towers, and training compounds, along with a number of docks being patrolled by what looks like ants from this distance. One final dock can be seen in what might be an industrial district, where half-completed ships are being worked on.

At this point the players have free reign of the city, starting with the district they choose based on the description above. See the city’s page for location details. If the players inquire of anyone in the city, they should be recognized as newcomers, and directed to the Commissar at his office in The Will of Gith Building.

[Tu'narath](../locations/Tu'narath)

### Navigating the Military District

> A beautiful glowing golden ring can be seen surrounding your entire home planet, which you can now observe from a distance that no other humanoid likely has. As you approach the Ring, your Pilot grabs their head and collapses onto the spelljamming helm, which has now gone dark. You drift uncontrollably, closer to the Ring of Siberys, which you can start to make out in uncanny detail - including an entire city built upon it! Just as you start to look around, your ship spins out and crash lands on one of the city’s docks - in what appears to be a militaristic district.

If the ship spins out and lands in an uncontrolled manner, then the military officers at the Naval Docking Towers will require the characters to complete a training exercise (see “Trial by Fire” adventure) before they’re allowed to leave. If they refuse, or escalate the situation, then they’ll be thrown into the brig.

If they don’t spin out and end up on good terms with the military, then the officers will offer to train the characters on how to navigate wildspace and a spelljammer (see “Trial by Fire” adventure).

If somehow the training isn’t offered, Aleithilithos could direct them to do so at a later time.

[0. Trial By Fire](0.%20Trial%20By%20Fire)

**The Brig**

In order to get out of the Brig, the characters will need to either break out (DC 18 Thieves’ Tools, at disadvantage if the guard is there and not distracted), convince the guard to let them out (DC 20 Persuasion/Intimidation), or some other creative solution.

### The Merchant District

> A beautiful glowing golden ring can be seen surrounding your entire home planet, which you can now observe from a distance that no other humanoid likely has. As you approach the Ring, your Pilot grabs their head and collapses onto the spelljamming helm, which has now gone dark. You drift uncontrollably, closer to the Ring of Siberys, which you can start to make out in uncanny detail - including an entire city built upon it! Your drifting continues without too much direction change, and you safely drift into one of the city’s docks - near a bustling market district.

At this point the players have basically free reign of the city, starting with the Merchant District. See the city’s page for location details. If the players inquire of anyone in the city, they should be recognized as newcomers, and directed to the Commissar at his office in The Will of Gith Building.

### Monastery of the Moons

The small monastery in the Mlar district is the only real religious building on the Ring, and the Ring’s main connection to both the religions of Eberron, such as the Silver Flame, and the religions of the Astral and Shardspace, such as the githzerai.

The Monastery is run by a couatl named Ecatzin, and contains its own Silver Flame that consists of the souls of any couatl who have died within Shardspace. A few tenants are inscribed onto plaques on lecterns around the monastery, several of which clearly inspired The Church of Silver Flame’s beliefs:
* The Silver Flame is force of light that holds fiends at bay. Those who seek to defend the innocent from evil can draw on the power of the Flame.
* Every mortal soul can find the light. Inspire and guide others to virtuous behavior.
* Every celestial soul can contribute to the light. Those whose power of good fades from this realm will enter the Flame.

Ecatzin can explain anything about the Flame here, and it should be clear by the end of the discussion that the Silver Flame on Eberron was created as a copy of this original one, as the couatl at the time dictated to Tira Miron.

There’s also a large orrery here that shows the relative location of each of the moons of Eberron, and can elucidate details about any of the moons which have already been visited. If the function of the orrery that Astra is carrying hasn’t come up yet, then have it chime in a way that Ecatzin recognizes so she can clarify its function before they leave.

Scattered around the monastery are various hand-written scraps of paper with unintelligible rambles (written in Draconic, which the players would notice if they speak it, but still can’t read what’s written). If Ecatzin is asked about them, he explains that he notes any occurrences of the Draconic Prophesy when he observes them. He can also explain generally what the Draconic Prophesy is.

[[Draconic Prophesy]]

### The Will of Gith (Commissar's Office)

Zetch’r’r, the current Commissar of the city, resides and works here. The office is run by his assistant, Saarys. Any visitors will need to get by her in order to speak with the Commissar or to get anywhere near the dragon.

The party may be able to get through by explaining that they have news to deliver to the Commissar concerning the rebel githyanki sect run by Serezka and some recent sabotage (from Trial By Fire).

### The Dragon’s Den

Aleithilithos, also known as the Caretaker, or simply the Amethyst Dragon, resides here. The den is located behind the Will of Gith, and the dragon is protected from most visitors by the Commissary Attendant Snett.

The Dragon should serve as a patron for the party, so make it clear that he’s here to help.