#adventure [[Sypheros (Mabar)]] [[The Queen of All Tears]]

### Background

At the center of the Last Desert lies a massive tomb-palace. Its style suggests the architecture of Aerenal, but it’s grander than even the City of the Dead. This is the fortress of the Queen of All Tears, the Dark Power of this domain.

### Hook(s)

### Synopsis

- The players can explore various areas of the upper level of the Necropolis, until such point that they enter the Tower of Necromancy. Here, the servants of the Queen of All Tears are attempting to unearth her mummy.
- If the players decide to follow the Queen, she leads them deeper into the Necropolis, where they can learn more about her or anger her and face wave after wave of undead creatures.

### Scene 1: Exploring the Necropolis

#### N1. Entry Spires
> A stone walkway leads to a tower that claws upward and inward, its pointed roof leaning menacingly overhead. Narrow windows pierce its walls, gargoyles cling to its eaves, and a doorway at the tower’s base gapes open.

There is a 20 percent chance (encounter on 17+) that `dice:1d3 + 1` living gargoyles cling to the outside of the entry (other gargoyles clinging to the tower are inanimate statues). Living gargoyles swoop down to attack anyone who crosses the gantry approaching the tower.

#### N2. Foyer
A large entry room branches off in five different directions, with the north leading to the Tower of Necromancy (N7) and the other four hallways (two to the east and two to the west) leading to areas N3 to N6.

#### N3. Bazaar of the Bizarre
> A large market hall sits at one end of this plaza, its four broken towers leaning inward. Faded pennants hang above the entrance, frozen stiff. A loud clatter resounds from within the hall.

This market hall once sold relics of arcane wonder. Now, its interior is a warren of mangled shop fronts crushed by chunks of stone. Most of the wares have become worthless, and everything else has been destroyed by a headless iron golem that is presently rampaging around inside the building. Without its head, the golem has the following changes to its statistics:
* The golem has 150 hit points (its hit point maximum). It has a challenge rating of 10 (5,900 XP).
* It is blinded and deafened, giving it disadvantage on all its attack rolls, and it can’t use its Poison Breath.

`encounter: 1: Iron Golem`

#### N4. Observatory
> This conical tower is held relatively upright by a ring of arched buttresses. A large telescope dominates a thirty-foot-diameter circular chamber at the top of the tower. The roof has a large, ragged hole in it where something large smashed through.

Looking into the telescope will reveal all nine (9) of the moons the party has already visited. Shifting the telescope slightly will show an orange-red moon (Aryth), a grey pockmarked moon (Vult) and then an endless expanse of darkness (The Void).

#### N5. Theater
> The roof of this domed building is wrecked and open to the elements. Inside is a theater with a large stage, seating for more than one hundred, and a backstage area.

A wooden writing desk sits in a backstage room, wrapped in chains and padlocked. A character using Thieves’ Tools can try to pick the lock as an action, doing so with a successful DC 15 Dexterity check. In a leather-bound folder in one of the desk drawers are five scripts for a play called A Blasphemy of Kings. The play tells the story of five siblings, each expecting to claim the throne of their late father. As the protagonists try to prove their worth, it is revealed that they’re all in fact dead, having perished alongside their father in the cataclysmic event that destroyed their kingdom.

**Cursed Play**. Each script has a different cover showing a humanoid figure that represents one of the siblings: the Martyr (with a noose around its neck), the Traitor (with a knife held behind its back), the Bewitched (with a fairy whispering in its ear), the Haunted (with a demonic shadow terrorizing it), and the Fool (performing a handstand). Each of the five scripts is cursed. Anyone who spends an hour reading a script must succeed on a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw or become cursed. A creature cursed in this way is gripped by a sudden feeling of impending doom. Each of the five scripts imparts a different curse, which can be ended by a remove curse spell or similar magic:
- **Martyr’s Script**. All attacks against the cursed character are made with advantage.
- **Traitor’s Script**. The cursed character can’t perform any action that would directly benefit one of their allies.
- **Bewitched’s Script**. The cursed character hears the voice of an imaginary fey creature whispering in their ear. Whenever presented with a choice, the character must randomly determine what action to take.
- **Haunted’s Script**. A shadowy fiend plagues the cursed character’s dreams (or trances in the case of an elf), denying that character the benefits of a long rest.
- **Fool’s Script**. The cursed character has disadvantage on all ability checks.

#### N6. Music Hall
> This grand music hall is aglitter with ice, and the floor underfoot is strewn with the crystal shards of fallen chandeliers. The frozen corpses of the audience lie strewn among the tiered seats, their expressions frozen in rapturous adulation. On the stage, cadaverous musicians slump over their shattered instruments. Old posters are plastered on the walls.

Old posters are plastered to the outer walls of this music hall. Anyone who can read the Draconic script can translate the poster closest to the entrance: “Experience the Esoteric Orchestra’s masterwork, The Dark Between the Stars!” A character who succeeds on a DC 15 Intelligence (History) check knows this legendary piece of music, as does any bard in the party.

A conductor’s baton rests on a lectern at the front of the stage. If a character grasps the baton, the hall echoes with the sounds of instruments being tuned, and a spectral orchestra materializes from out of the corpses onstage. The ghostly musicians hold their instruments and stare expectantly at their conductor. These spirits can’t be turned or harmed in any way.

**Conducting the Orchestra**. To conduct the orchestra through the end of their final symphony, a character must succeed on three consecutive DC 15 Charisma (Performance) checks made 1 minute apart. A character who knows The Dark Between the Stars gains advantage on each check. On the first successful check, the orchestra launches into a hauntingly beautiful performance. If the next check succeeds, listeners experience a falling sensation in the pits of their stomachs, as the music reaches a crescendo. If the third and final check succeeds, the conductor brings the piece to a satisfying close as the sound of ghostly applause rises from the audience and phantasmal black roses rain down on the musicians, who face the audience and bow before fading into the afterlife. A character who successfully conducts the orchestra gains inspiration.

#### N7. Tower of Necromancy
> The remains of a toppled tower lie scattered around you. Its fractured base, protruding from the ground like a broken tooth, is teeming with crawling gray hands.

A *detect magic* spell cast here reveals an aura of necromantic magic. Two hundred crawling claws are tirelessly but ineffectively trying to excavate the tower's ruins, brick by brick. Anyone who disrupts this effort is attacked by `dice: 2d6` claws (each doing `dice: 2d4` slashing damage). Deep under the rubble, a mummified corpse (of The Queen of All Tears) lies crushed, and a spectral image of a beautiful elf woman floats above it. Characters who linger in the area of the tower witness this spirit staring glumly down at the debris. The spectrum can’t speak.

Excavating the tower requires pickaxes and shovels, and it takes a number of hours equal to 40 divided by the number of excavators (rounded down, minimum 1 hour). The crawling claws don’t count as diggers, nor do they attack characters who join the digging effort. Quite the contrary: they get visibly excited as the unearthing of their master draws near. If The Queen of All Tears’ mummy is unearthed, the specter re-unites with it and she walks off deeper into The Necropolis. The claws scuttle off various directions into the ruins.

If the players attempt to stop the Queen or especially if they attack her, she summons 1d3 **wraiths** (CR 5) and disappears behind an intact stone door on the north wall. The doors is an object with AC 15 and 50 HP, and would need to be destroyed if the party wants to follow the Queen. If they do so, move to Scene 2.

`encounter: 1d3: Wraith`

**Treasure**. Buried under the stone with the Queen's mummy is an [[Amulet of the Black Skull]].

### Scene 2: Facing The Queen of All Tears

This scene is entirely optional, but the players may choose to help unbury the Queen and then follow her into her chambers. If so, then they can talk with her to get information, or she may send wave after wave of undead creatures after them if they anger her. If the players choose to speak to the Queen respectfully, then she may reveal any of the information below during a conversation:
- The Queen of All Tears is the youngest of the Dark Powers, with the others being the Bone King in the Kingdom of Bones and the Empress of Shadows in the Adamantine City.
- All of the Dark Powers serve Despair, who rules the plane from her Drifting Citadel.
- She was once a mortal who dreamed of mastering life and death, but her pursuit of these goals resulted in the deaths of everyone she ever loved and everyone who shared her blood.
- Her kingdom was razed, and she killed her own daughter and transformed her into a lich, so at least one piece of her legacy might survive.
- Her name was Minara Vol, and she was the mother of Erandis Vol.
- But she’s now stuck in this plane, and has relegated herself to her fate.

If the players anger the Queen at any time, or especially if they attack her, then she will send waves of undead creatures at them. The table below outlines the waves she’ll conjure, with difficulty ramping up with each wave. The players can leave at any point, but will not be allowed to return.

| Wave | Encounter Composition                |
| ---- | ------------------------------------ |
| 1    | `encounter: 1d8: Shadow`             |
| 2    | `encounter: 1: Incubus, 1: Succubus` |
| 3    | `encounter: 1d3: Banshee`            |
| 4    | `encounter: 1d6: Wight`              |
| 5    | `encounter: 1d3: Wraith`             |

### Conclusion

If the players don't anger the Queen, then they're free to leave at any time - she won't stop them. If they do anger her, then they will likely die in one of the encounters - at which point they can be found again when the party gets to Dolurrh.

### References

* Loosely based on Icewind Dale - Rime of the Frostmaiden (Chapter 7, Necropolis of Ythryn).
