#adventure [[Vult (Shavarath)]] [[Destruction]]

> This moon has countless battlefields, each one reflecting a different struggle. There’s a vicious guerilla war in a shadowy forest. There's a mighty fortress that’s always under siege; occasionally, the attackers tear it away from the defenders, at which point the former defenders begin the siege anew. Various legions appear to have command centers or headquarters dotted around the moon, on the land, in the water, and in the sky.

In Shavarath, angels and devils are locked in endless conflict. Radiant blades spill burning blood, and bolts of force smash angels from the sky. The war began at the moment of creation, and it will continue to the end of time. Its primary combatants are immortal, and fallen soldiers return within a day or so. The forces are so evenly matched that a decisive victory is impossible. To outsiders, this war seems pointless. Over the last four hundred years of conflict in Nullius Terram, the Legion of Justice has advanced its front line by perhaps 20 feet. Mortals may look at this and ask, “Why continue to fight? Why not just leave the struggle and do something — anything — else?” In particular, it’s common for mortals to see the vast resources the celestials devote to the war and protest, “Why don’t you help us? You claim to be the Legion of Justice, but innocent people are dying in Thaliost while you fight this meaningless war!” The angel isn’t fighting for a single nation, and this war isn’t driven by gold or politics. The immortals of Shavarath believe that their war is reflected across every reality. Justice. Freedom. Tyranny. Cruelty. The war in Shavarath is a visible symbol of the balance of power between these forces, and when it shifts in Shavarath, the immortals believe it shifts everywhere.

There's no good place to land the ship, and so it's forced to land in the center of the battlefield of Nullius Terram. When the players arrive, they are immediately caught up in the midst of the war. They are approached by scouts from two different factions, who are looking for aid or reinforcements - the Legion of Freedom (Archons) and the Legion of Tyranny (Devils). The devils may offer riches and power in exchange for their aid, while the archons may offer them assistance to get away from the plane safely. Each carries a battle flag of a different color (Green and Yellow respectively in this case) that bears the symbol of the plane of Shavarath.

As the players progress through the war-torn landscape, they may encounter wounded soldiers or civilians who need their help, including from the other two factions. The demons may try to appeal to the players' baser instincts, promising them pleasure and carnage if they join their cause, while the Angels may offer divine blessings and the chance to fight for good and righteousness. They may also come across key strategic targets that could turn the tide of the war, such as important supply lines or weapon caches.

To keep things realistic, the players should not be able to help every faction equally. Each decision they make has consequences, both positive and negative, and they will need to carefully weigh their options. Helping one faction too much could anger another, causing them to turn against the players later on. Track "faction score" for each of the four factions as they ally or fight against each (with each faction starting at zero and counting up or down). If a rival faction becomes aware of actions done for/against their rival, then their score may be effected as well - for example, if the players help out the Angels and the Demons learn about it, their Angel "faction score" will increase and their Demon "faction score" will decrease. Also each faction will have a separate score for each area of the plane, which tracks the legion that has the current upper-hand in that area. So helping a faction in a certain area will have an impact to the overall "faction score" as well as the "legion standing" for that area. This is particularly important in a few areas, such as the City of Knives with the "Break the Siege" adventure. At certain "checkpoints" additional things could happen based on each faction's score - for example, a platoon of soldiers may start tracking the party (doing Survival checks to seek them out, then attacking if found) at a score of +5. Or the faction's Commander may even seek out the party personally at a high enough score (+10 or even +20).

It is also possible that some factions may not be entirely honest with the players, hiding their true intentions or motivations. The players may need to gather information and make alliances carefully in order to avoid being double-crossed. Overall, the players should feel the weight of their decisions and the consequences of their actions. They should never feel like they have an easy or obvious choice, and the world should respond dynamically to their choices and actions.

| d4  | Legion            | Creatures | Commander                | Flag Color | Motivation                                                                | Faction Score |
| --- | ----------------- | --------- | ------------------------ | ---------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------- |
| 1   | Legion of Justice | Angels    | Lord Commander Ambriel   | Blue       | Offer divine blessings and the chance to fight for good and righteousness | 0             |
| 2   | Legion of Freedom | Archons   | Lord Commander Terxyx    | Green      | Offer assistance to get away from the plane safely                        | 0             |
| 3   | Legion of Tyranny | Devils    | Lord Commander Astaralax | Yellow     | Offer riches and power                                                    | 0             |
| 4   | Legion of Cruelty | Demons    | Lord Commander Eltab     | Red        | Appeal to baser instincts, promising pleasure and carnage                 | 0             |
^shavarath-legions

### Nullius Terram

One of the largest layers, Nullius Terram is a battlefield the size of a small nation. It’s divided by several deep, heavily fortified trenches, which are separated by blasted regions of scorched earth, blast craters, and bones. Nullius Terram’s multiple trench lines twist and curve throughout the region, and in the lands between the trenches lie strategic outposts.

The region is marked by constant barrages and terrible tools of mass destruction — widescale cloudkill, curses that transform conscripts into killers, and worse. Tyranny, Cruelty, Freedom, and Justice are the four active legions in this region. Justice has a difficult position in Nullius Terram, but has been slowly gaining strength. Periodically, the commanders send troops to clash in the fields between the lines, either in simple skirmishes or full offensives. Ultimately, the theme of this layer is that of slow, agonizing stalemate, and the suffering war can inflict on both the land and the soldiers.

| d4  | Legion            | Creatures | Flag Color | Legion Standing |
| --- | ----------------- | --------- | ---------- | --------------- |
| 1   | Legion of Justice | Angels    | Blue       | 0               |
| 2   | Legion of Freedom | Archons   | Green      | 0               |
| 3   | Legion of Tyranny | Devils    | Yellow     | 0               |
| 4   | Legion of Cruelty | Demons    | Red        | 0               |
^shavarath-legion-standing-nullius-terram

### The Burning Sky

The sky is filled with many airships, some large enough to be floating towns. A few islands of rock float amongst the solid clouds, but if there’s any land below, it’s hidden by deadly fog. While there are skirmishes on the stone islands, most of the action occurs in the skies. Winged angels and fiends circle and duel, while conscripts guide dragons and other aerial mounts. The winged angels currently hold the area with a slight edge over the other legions.

`encounter: 1: Dragonbone Golem`

| d4  | Legion            | Creatures | Flag Color | Legion Standing |
| --- | ----------------- | --------- | ---------- | --------------- |
| 1   | Legion of Justice | Angels    | Blue       | +2              |
| 2   | Legion of Freedom | Archons   | Green      | 0               |
| 3   | Legion of Tyranny | Devils    | Yellow     | 0               |
| 4   | Legion of Cruelty | Demons    | Red        | 0               |
^shavarath-legion-standing-nullius-terram

### The City of Knives

It looks like this was once a city of marvels, with towers rivaling those of Sharn, gilded monuments, museums, gardens, and more. But the City of Knives lies between vast armies of the Legions, and it represents the impact of brutal war on a glorious city. Ongoing bombardment is a constant threat. The civilian conscripts are fighting their own war for shelter and supplies; some rally together for the common good, while others have become looters and brigands. Justice and Tyranny hold their positions on either side of the city, relying on bombardment and occasional assaults. The Legion of Cruelty spreads terror within the city (and currently hold a slight edge over the other legions), while the celestials of the Legion of Freedom seek to rally the common people against all enemies.

[[12. Break the Siege]]

| d4  | Legion            | Creatures | Flag Color | Legion Standing |
| --- | ----------------- | --------- | ---------- | --------------- |
| 1   | Legion of Justice | Angels    | Blue       | 0               |
| 2   | Legion of Freedom | Archons   | Green      | 0               |
| 3   | Legion of Tyranny | Devils    | Yellow     | 0               |
| 4   | Legion of Cruelty | Demons    | Red        | +2              |
^shavarath-legion-standing-city-knives

### The Bloody Sea

There are no continents in this aquatic layer, but a handful of islands support the warring fleets. Grand and powerful warships clash in the open waters and bombard settlements. The ships may be familiar, but there are many other unusual engines of war: constructed krakens, submersible warships, monstrosities and dragons bound to service — wonders that the people of Eberron can imagine but can’t yet create.

The pirate queen Lhazaar appears here as a sword wraith in the Bloody Sea... working mostly for the Legion of Freedom (who has the starting edge here), but who's not particularly loyal. Fighting and defeating her results in a -2 to the Legion of Freedom and a +1 to all over Legions, shifting the balance of power here entirely.

`encounter: 1: Sword Wraith Commander`

| d4  | Legion            | Creatures | Flag Color | Legion Standing |
| --- | ----------------- | --------- | ---------- | --------------- |
| 1   | Legion of Justice | Angels    | Blue       | 0               |
| 2   | Legion of Freedom | Archons   | Green      | +2              |
| 3   | Legion of Tyranny | Devils    | Yellow     | 0               |
| 4   | Legion of Cruelty | Demons    | Red        | 0               |
^shavarath-legion-standing-bloody-sea

### The Warring Cities

At first glance, this layer looks like the blasted land between the trenches of Nullius Terram. It’s home to a number of warring cities, but they aren’t static settlements. Rather, some are floating fortresses that dwarf the Argonth of Breland, and others walk on two legs. The warforged colossus in Eberron: Rising from the Last War could be used as a model for a small fortress.

The Legion of Tyranny holds the area currently, with a slight edge over the others. But for every Warforged Titan that's destroyed, -1 to the Legion of Tyranny. If the Warforged Colossus is somehow taken out, then -2 to the Legion of Tyranny.

`encounter: 2: Warforged Titan`

| d4  | Legion            | Creatures | Flag Color | Legion Standing |
| --- | ----------------- | --------- | ---------- | --------------- |
| 1   | Legion of Justice | Angels    | Blue       | 0               |
| 2   | Legion of Freedom | Archons   | Green      | 0               |
| 3   | Legion of Tyranny | Devils    | Yellow     | +2              |
| 4   | Legion of Cruelty | Demons    | Red        | 0               |
^shavarath-legion-standing-warring-cities

### The Destroyed Depths

The party may journey through this network of underground tunnels to bypass any of the particularly brutal battlefields, encountering strange creatures and ancient ruins along the way.

One known access to the Destroyed Depths is the sewers of the City of Knives (Break the Siege, Scene 9: Open the Secret Way), but there are many others that lead to all areas of the moon. This is also the only way to access the chamber under The Fulcrum where Destruction is hiding out.

A map can be found that directs the party to The Fulcrum (or any other area they'd want to visit), but it's held by the Legion of Tyranny in the Warring Cities. The party would need to fight through a heavily fortified devil stronghold within the city in order to retrieve it. Alternatively, they could attempt to navigate the Depths as a maze, which has a DC of 16 and a Victory Condition of 8 Right Path cards (so very difficult to navigate).

### The Fulcrum

The Fulcrum is the home of Destruction and takes the form of an empty wasteland, seemingly trapped in a never ending, destructive sandstorm. The only thing that can be seen here is a gargantuan sword, driven into the ground.

Destruction has chosen to abandon his destructive side and essentially split himself in half, embracing his creative side and housing his destructive side within his sword (the same gargantuan one driven into the ground of the wasteland above). However, he has become so engrossed in his work that he has lost touch with the outside world and is unaware of the chaos his absence is causing. The players may choose to convince Destruction to embrace his whole self and take back control of the plane, or they have the option of taking the Sword of Destruction (which is a magical item that shrinks down to the appropriate size when taken - probably a re-skinned Vorpal Sword) for themselves and leaving Destruction to his new life.

If the players decide to seek out the sword, they'll need to cross the vast desert, fighting off the elements and deadly sandstorms while being pursued by a horde of devilish cavalry.

### References

* UA Mass Combat rules (could be used if the group decides to say ally with one side and lead a whole battalion to try and turn the tide of war, or something else crazy like that): https://media.wizards.com/2017/dnd/downloads/2017_UAMassCombat_MCUA_v1.pdf
* Use Scene 5 from the Convergence Manifesto Adventure AE01-11: A Heart in Mourning?
* Could draw inspiration from Planescape: Buxenus (Arcadia), Avalas (Acheron - Eternal Battlefield), Thuldanin (Acheron - Sea Battles), Ysgard (good side of battle)
