#adventure [[Crya (Dal Quor)]] [[characters/Dream]] [[The Archivist]] [[The Devourer]] [[Ashana]]

> This moon doesn’t have distinct areas like the others. Instead, it's a vast ocean, but made of shifting sands. You watch as iridescent outlines of mortal creatures fall into the ocean and create “islands”, seemingly shaped by their memories and desires. The islands blip out of existence as each creature awakes. The ocean appears to contain millions of islands, but none last for long. A small fortress can be seen not too far away, and a huge castle takes up the horizon. Two gates, one of polished ivory and the other of translucent horn, frame an open atrium that serves as your landing site.

Crya is the moon furthest from Eberron, thrown out of its orbit by magical forces long ago, it no longer orbits and remains completely stationary. Due to its distance, lack of movement, and dark color, the moon is completely invisible from Eberron. Once up close though, the moon can be observed as completely covered in deep, dark liquid (which is actually shifting sands, when observed up close).

**Inhabitants of the plane include** (think of each type of quori as the demons in Dragon Age, representing a powerful negative emotion):
* Figments: manifestations from the void by Dal Quor, created in order to fill a role within a dream.
* Drifters: a remarkable figment that has developed the ability to persist beyond the dream that created it — becoming a truly sentient spirit instead of a simple manifestation.
* Tsucora quori: specialize in fear
* Du’ulora quori: specialize in rage
* Hashalaq quoti: specialize in pleasure/pain
* Kalaraq quori: specialize in pride
* Tsoreva quori: specialize in envy
* Usvapna quori: specialize in sloth/hunger

### Gates of Horn and Ivory

This is the landing site for the ship. Here the party will first encounter a "drifter" who could help them navigate the plane and give advice. She takes the form of Alice, Celeste's girlfriend who the party met back on Thelanis. She will not know and it will not be clear what she really is - a dream, a figment of their imagination, or something else entirely. But she's very motivated to help the group out, and is familiar with at least the basics of Dream's plan (portal to 40,000 years ago) so that the group can figure out a counter-plan.

Light blue banners bearing the symbol of the plane of Dal Quor hang from each of the gates. The gates themselves are large Roman-style arches, each made of a different material.

```ad-info
title: Drifters
collapse: true

Per ExE, “Occasionally, a remarkable figment develops the ability to persist beyond the dream that created it — becoming a truly sentient spirit instead of a simple manifestation… Such free-willed figments are called drifters.” Generally speaking, the Dreaming Dark doesn’t employ drifters and most drifters will do their best to avoid the quori, because DRIFTERS ARE A FLAW IN THE SYSTEM. Why SHOULD a quori deal with a free-willed, unpredictable drifter when it could just use a figment that will do exactly what it’s supposed to do? This is one reason drifters may help adventurers; they themselves aren’t part of the system and have no loyalty to the quori; quori will typically destroy drifters as they ARE flaws in the system (think Moriarty from TNG's holodeck).
```

### Taer Lian Doresh

Thousands of years ago, one of the eladrin’s feyspires, Shae Tirias Tolai, slipped from Thelanis into Xen'drik — but when it appeared, the giants were waiting. They pillaged the feyspire, claiming its treasures and taking its people as slaves. The other eladrin lords responded by improving their defensive magic. However, some among them wanted more — they sought vengeance.

The lords of Shae Doresh, the Spire of Dreams, swore to make the giants pay. They transformed their settlement into a mighty fortress, crafting arms, armor, and powerful spells of battle. When their feyspire next appeared in Eberron, they challenged the emperor of the giants, but they had woefully underestimated the power of the titan king. With a powerful ritual, he banished the feyspire to the plane of Dal Quor, where it remained trapped until the cycle of that plane spat it back to Thelanis once more.

By the time Shae Doresh next returned to Eberron, the giants had been laid low. However, the fey had been tainted by their long sojourn in Dal Quor, their feyspire transformed into a haven for nightmares — now called Taer Lian Doresh, the Fortress of Fading Dreams.

The spire exists in a state of flux, simultaneously on Dal Quor and Eberron (within the Whitepine Forest of the Lhazaar Principalities) — though anyone who leaves the spire returns to the plane he or she came from. Due to this, the players could theoretically return to Eberron and come back to Dal Quor, but anyone native to Dal Quor cannot.

The Lord of the Fading Dream is no servant of the Dreaming Dark, but he is willing to work with the quori when doing so will meet his ends.

### The Ocean of Dreams

A vast expanse of psychic space surrounds il-Lashtavar, home to millions of mortal dreams. The islands in the Ocean of Dreams range from the complex dreamscapes of sentient creatures, humans and dragons alike, to the simple dream of a dog that’s imagining chasing a ball. From the outside, these islands appear as glittering bubbles, each with an image of its dreamer within it. They’re loosely arranged based on the physical location of the dreamer, so there’s a stretch of the ocean that contains dreamers near Breland, another for Thrane, and so on — including regions for any dreamers currently on other planes.

Swimming within the Ocean of Dreams is a rogue civilization of Quor-Toa (see *Chronicles of Eberron*). As the Dreaming Dark fears them, adventurers are mostly safe in this area of Crya.

One area of the Ocean is clearly being focused upon by a large group of quori. This is the Xen'drik region of the Ocean, and the quori are actively attacking the dreams of the Giants as part of their invasion effort. Will the players interfere and weaken the quori's efforts?

`dice: [[13. Crya, the Lonely Dreamer#^random-encounter-quori]]`

### The Riedran Sea

Over centuries, the Inspired have built a network of monoliths in Riedra, psychic anchors called hanbalani altas. These allow them to control everyone’s dreams over a vast radius. Dreams are typically tailored to the region, including local news and instructions. However, if they choose, the Inspired can broadcast a single dream to all of Sarlona. Within Dal Quor, this manifests as a distinctive region of the Ocean of Dreams — an array of hundreds of thousands of islands, dream-bubbles arranged in perfect symmetrical rows, with identical images in each bubble.

### The Uul Dhakaan

Jhazaal Dhakaan united the dar through an act of epic bardic magic. When the dar dream, they don’t create their own islands in the Ocean. Instead, they are drawn to a vast, ongoing dream — the Uul Dhakaan, as discussed in chapter 4. This is a vision of what the Dhakaani Empire could and should be, and it encompasses many cities and fortresses. In addition to the spirits of dreaming dar, this enormous dream is filled with countless figments — both background soldiers, artisans, and facsimiles of legendary champions whose memories have been preserved. Most dar aren’t lucid dreamers and they don’t fully remember the time they spend in the Uul Dhakaan, but it reinforces Dhakaani values and traditions. If adventurers want to experience what the Dhakaani Empire was at its height — and what it could be again —they can find it here. Chot’uul guardians maintain outposts throughout the dream, along with a great monastery in the capital city. The magic woven into the dream ensures that the throne in the imperial palace remains empty — for now. But when a new emperor is chosen and has the support of the majority of the dar, they’ll hold the throne in the Uul Dhakaan as well as in the Material Plane.

### Il-Lashtavar

The heart of Dal Quor is a city known as il-Lashtavar. This vast dreamscape, orbited by the Ocean of Dreams, is the source and home of the quori. It’s currently a menagerie of nightmares, a showcase of terrors that haunt the dreams of mortals.

#### Outer Ring

The outer ring is protected by a perimeter wall, separating it from the Ocean of Dreams. The wall is studded by three large towers, each the realm of a separate type of quori:
- The Red Tower is the domain of the du’ulora quori, who appear as a collection of wings and eyes suspended in shadows, with three protruding tendrils that end in an eyeball. They reside within their fort and direct the troops in the other two towers. Du'ulora are cold, calculating creatures who thrive on battle and defeating worthy foes. They feed off of the rage they induce in others.
- The Blue Tower is the domain of the usvapna, the spies and assassins of the quori. Usvapnas are up to 10 feet tall, possessing a mostly humanoid torso, but with four arms ending in crab-like pincers, and a long snakelike tail. They do not have a head; instead a cloud of darkness rests where the head would normally be.
- The Black Tower is the domain of the tsoreva, the enforcers and shock troopers of the quori.

On the edges of il-Lashtavar, corpses dangle from the trees of a haunted orchard. Blood drips from the leaves of a terrifying topiary maze. While the basic form of these nightmares is stable, they feed on the psyches of nearby mortals. Adventurers walking through the orchard see the hanging corpses as the people they most care about, or even as themselves — whatever is most disturbing to each intruder. At any given time, there are hundreds or even thousands of quori here, primarily the tsucora quori who roam the streets. Il-Lashtavar is the most dangerous place in Dal Quor - only the most powerful and prepared adventurers should enter the city.

#### Inner Ring

Those who press through this outer ring of nightmares find the three great inner fortresses. In the center of the courtyard connecting them are three glowing triangular crystals, each of different color and representing one of the three Ages (see below). The dark blue one in the center represents il-Lashtavar, The Dreaming Dark (with that inscribed in Quori along the length of the crystal). The silvery white one (looking exactly like the symbol for the Path of Light) on the left represents il-Yannah, The Dreaming Light. And a final glittering pink one on the right represents il-Chormeum, The Dreaming Heart.

The Devourer of Dreams, the kalaraq quori who coordinates the actions of the Dreaming Dark on Eberron, and serves as the right hand of Dream, resides in the Right Tower. The quori spirits tied to agents of the Dreaming Dark and the Inspired can return here whenever they choose, reporting to The Devourer and coordinating with other quori. The fortress itself is ever shifting; it might be formed from black twisted roots, or the walls could be blood-soaked spiderwebs. At the very center is a pool of shadows. It’s here that newborn quori emerge when they’re reincarnated, and here that the Devourer of Dreams descends into the pool to commune with the Great Darkness (also known as Mother Night).

The Archive of Dreams, also known as the Left Tower, is run by the hashalaq quori (including one named Ashana). Here, every dream that has ever been had, across all of the ages, is stored. The Archive is attended by the Archivist, the left hand of Dream. The Archive of Dreams includes a rough "map" of the Ocean of Dreams, where the Archivist and the hashalaq quori know the vague location of different types of dreamers. Although it would be impossible to observe and archive all dreams, the Archivist may track or record certain dreams that it finds important.

The Central, or Grand Tower, is the home of Dream (also known as Quor Tarai by the creatures of Eberron), the Endless who controls the plane. All of Dal Quor is the realm of Dream. Dream himself will never die, but his quori are destroyed and reborn in the Turning of the Age, bringing a new age to Dal Quor. Dream himself is indifferent to this process, and sees it as necessary - it has happened before and will continue to happen - he will remain and only his quori followers (including his left and right hands) will change.
 * The last turn was known as The Dreaming Heart, where the city was known as il-Chormeum.
 * The next turn is known to be The Dreaming Light, where the city will be known as il-Yannah.

### The Final Showdown

The last great challenge for the party involves Dream opening a portal to Eberron as it existed just prior to 40,000 years ago (time in Dal Quor is crazy) - the event that occurred when the quori first crossed into Eberron. il-Lashtavar has just come to power in the recent Turning of the Age, and has gathered an army to invade Eberron. Can the heroes stop Dream's plan? There are a few options outlined below, or the players may come up with their own solution to stop Dream's plan.

#### Fighting with the Giants (from Eberron)

Stopping Dream could involve going through the portal and fighting on the side of the Giants to hold back the Quori and prepare Moon Breaker for use. Possibly tie in side quests to help their cause, such as waking up giants in the Ocean of Dreams (so they can join the fight in the real world) or allying with rebels within Dal Quor.

> And indeed, it was the **Sul’at League** that finally produced the Moon Breaker — the doomsday weapon that decimated the quori and sealed off their home plane of Dal Quor from Eberron.
> - Excerpt from "City of Stormreach"

It was the Sul'at who produced the Moon Breaker, but it was the Cul'sir who drove its creation and use (as they were the dominant civilization and by far the largest nation). The Sul'at as a small civilization was far more interested in the development of arcane science than in conquering reality; they might be considered the House Cannith of their age.

```ad-info
title: Moon Breaker
The way the moon was destroyed according to The Gates of Night was by the giants using a device housed in Karul'tash, an ancient giant forgehold. The eldritch machine is an obsidian column covered in glowing sigils and gemstones that hovers ten feet in the air and has twelve orbiting crystals each embodying a moon of Eberron, one of which the giants subsequently destroyed to use the principle of sympathetic magic to smash the 13th moon's crystal and blink the planar link to Dal Quor out of existence.
```

This should be a battle with waves of quori who are trying to attack Moon Breaker while the Giants are trying to finalize preparations for its use. The players can use their actions to protect Moon Breaker or to take out waves of quori.

Wave 1: `encounter: 4: Tsoreva Quori`
Wave 2: `encounter: 3: Tsucora Quori`
Wave 3: `encounter: 2: Du'ulora Quori`

Moon Breaker requires 13 successful Intelligence (Arcana) checks in order to finish the preparations. Two Giants, one Cloud Giant from the Cul'sir Dominion (Mirrog, the project leader) and one Fire Giant from the Su'lat League (Drogir, the head scientist, who has a +3 to Intelligence), are stationed at Moon Breaker and will use any of their turns possible to make an Intelligence (Arcana) check to work on the machine. If they are attacked by a Quori they will fight back on their next turn, rather than making a check. Any PC can choose to use their turn to make an Intelligence (Arcana) check to help the giants. The DC for Arcana checks starts at 10 and increases by one for each successful check (so the final check is DC 23).

When the checks are all completed, four additional actions, which must be completed on two separate rounds, are required to prime and then fire the machine. These actions will completed by the Giants if at least one of them is still alive, and/or can be assisted by the players. But once the final action is performed, Moon Breaker will fire, and they won't be able to get back to Dal Quor (so stuck in the past on Eberron).

>"As the planar connection disintegrated, the result was a planetary cataclysm that shook Xen’drik to its core and plunged large chunks of that continent beneath the sea. Mountains collapsed and gaping wounds the size of entire cities were rent open in the earth. The sun’s light was blotted out for a decade as portions of the shattered moon rained down from the sky for years, spreading the unspeakable devastation across the world. The physical connection between Eberron and Dal Quor was severed, perhaps forever."
>- Excerpt from "The Collapse of a Giant Empire" - Prof. Bertram Iridian, 863 Y.K.

#### Closing the Portal (from Dal Quor)

Another option could be to shut down the portal from the Dal Quor side. This can only be done by collecting all thirteen of the relics known as dreamstone shards - which can be connected together to create a harmonic resonance that will close the portal. Dreamstone shards are scattered all around Dal Quor, and at least a few have been entrusted to Dream's family members:

1. One shard can be found by exploring Taer Lian Doresh. While doing so, it shifts back to Eberron and the crystal can be found in the Whitepine Forest of the Lhazaar Principalities.
2. Another can be found in Taer Lian Doresh, but it's in the possession of The Lord of the Fading Dream. The PCs need to convince him to hand it over, but that shouldn't be hard (DC 15 Persuasion / DC 20 Intimidation) since he's not a servant of Dream.
3. One can be found in the Ocean of Dreams, under the possession of the Quor-Toa, who will gladly hand it over if it means angering Dream.
4. A shard was taken by the dreaming Giants who inhabit the Xen'drik region of the Ocean of Dreams. Another that should be easy to obtain, as the Giants hate Dal Quor.
5. One is being held by the Dhakaani (goblinoids) of the Uul Dhakaan.
6. Mother Night holds one shard.
7. Death holds a shard that Dream entrusted to her back when they were on better terms.
8. One shard is held by the hashalaq quori in the Archive of Dreams in the Inner Ring of Il-Lashtavar.
9. The last five come from the PCs. Each PC will need to manifest a dreamstone shard by seeking out one of their personal dreams in the Ocean of Dreams and explaining it to the party.

### Conclusion

If they manage to fight with the Giants, and the invasion continues as history wrote, then maybe everything is the same if they go back to Eberron. Some players may be adamant that they don't try to change history, and let things play out as they are supposed to happen.

If the PCs do manage to stop Dream's invasion entirely, what impact will that have on the world of Eberron they thought they knew? Were the giants never struck down and now rule Xen’drik (and maybe all of Eberron) with an iron fist? Could lead into a whole alternate realm story as they return to a very different Eberron.

If the players stay on or return to Dal Quor, they could try and force a Turning of the Age. This could be done after the immediate threat of the portal invasion is handled, and serve as a way to neutralize Dream as an immediate threat. A Turning of the Age can only be brought about by Dream himself, when he touches the appropriate triangular crystal in the courtyard, so the players would need to convince him to do so.

### Random Tables

| dice:1d6  | Encounter                       |
| --- | ------------------------------- |
| 1   | `encounter: 1d3: Tsoreva Quori` |
| 2   | `encounter: 1: Tsucora Quori`   |
| 3   | `encounter: 1: Hashalaq Quori`  |
| 4   | `encounter: 1: Du'ulora Quori`  |
| 5   | `encounter: 1: Usvapna Quori`   |
| 6   | `encounter: 1: Kalaraq Quori`   |
^random-encounter-quori

### References

* https://keith-baker.com/ifaq-dreams/
* https://keith-baker.com/ifaq-flumphs/
* Majority inspiration from Sandman, including the Ivory Gate (from The Dreaming) and Dream himself.
* Taer Lian Doresh: https://kanka.io/en-US/campaign/6529/locations/61651
* https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gates_of_horn_and_ivory
