#adventure #completed [[Daskaran]]

### Background

When Onme meets the Throne of Life, she tells her that she is the descendant of one of her former followers, who was banished to Eberron. This prompts Onme's memory and we flash back to when she was dropped off at the Orphanage in Daskaran, and then faced an exciting adventure where she helped save one of her fellow orphans.

### Synopsis

- We start with Onme being dropped off at the orphanage, and after establishing Keeper Vatalya and several background events, we flash forward to when Onme was about 14.
- We introduce several other orphans, played by the other players, and the situation where a few orphans have gone missing. The players may investigate the orphanage to get clues and information that will eventually lead them to the hideout of a local group of Tarnished.
- When they get to the hideout, there is a Tiger guarding the cell that Onme's friend is being held in. When they open the cell and get near her, Onme's hands start glowing and the girl wakes up!
- Finally we see the best friend being taken by the Church at age 16 to train as a Templar, which Onme eventually does as well.

### Scene 1: The Beginning

The flashback begins when Onme is dropped off at the orphanage. We can explore who it was (mother or grandmother) and any details such as appearance if the players would like. Describe Keeper Vatalya - an elderly human woman with grey hair and a persistent flat expression - who picks up Onme's carrier off the front step and carries her in to the orphanage. She places the baby into a crib, next to another crib holding a small dragon-like creature.

We flash forward about 7 years, where we see Onme playing games with a dragonborn child who looks to be the same age. Ask the group (primarily Sara though) the name of this child, who will end up being Onme's best friend. We flash forward another year where the dragonborn child is teaching Onme how to speak Draconic, so they can use it as their own secret language (she calls "Glav") that the Keeper won't understand.
* axun = yes
* thric = no
* aesthyr = female
* darahar = Dragonborn
* athear = Celestial
* geth = quest
* irthos = secret
* caex = sword
* korth = danger
* lex = word

We flash forward another year, where several members of the Church of the Silver Flame appear and take away one of the older orphans (who Onme would know to be about 16 years old). Another year later, a different orphan goes missing inexplicitly, and several Church members appear to investigate.

After setting up this background, we flash forward to when Onme was about 14, before the adventure starts. Onme is outside of the orphanage at the Statue of Tira Miron in the center of town - ask what she's doing while there, and then move on to the rest of the players to create their orphan characters.

### Scene 2: The Orphanage

Each of the players will create their own orphan character, who will be Onme's friends at the Orphanage. These characters could use whatever appearance they want, but players should use their regular character sheet with the following changes - take a -2 to any checks, cut HP in half, and remove any and all equipment. On this first day, give time for the characters to explore the orphanage or do whatever they'd like.

On the second day, have Onme do a Perception check with advantage. She will discover that her best friend has gone missing, and that Keeper Vatayla hasn't seemed to have noticed yet.

```ad-info

What's happening is that children are being kidnapped periodically by the Tarnished to serve as their own Templar trainees. Usually it happens so infrequently that the Church will investigate, aren't able to discover anything and eventually have to move on - then it's several months or more until it happens again. But this is the second kidnapping in as many weeks, and the Church is still investigating the first one (a little Tiefling girl named Gridani), so Keeper Vatayla expects that it will be weeks before they're able to send more forces to investigate this one.
 
The statue of Tira Miron in central Daskaran leads to the local hideout of the Tarnished. A deep red gem on the sword's (Kloinjer) pommel is a button that can be pressed to cause the statue to move and reveal the hideout.
```

The idea is to get the players to investigate and explore the area in order to find out what happened to Onme's best friend. For any areas that the players want to explore, have them describe what that looks like - for example, if they ask about a kitchen, then there definitely is one, but they need to describe it and what's there. The only set locations are the ones below.

##### Bunk House

All of the orphans sleep in bunks that line the walls of a long room that takes up one whole side of the orphanage. There's a bathroom at the far end of the room, but nothing of much interest in the room itself.

A DC 12 Investigation check of the room will reveal a small scrap of damp silver and white fabric at the foot of Onme's best friends' bunk (which causes Onme to think about the flags at the Statue of Tira Miron in the center of the city, outside of the orphanage).

##### Vatalya's Bedroom

The only private bedroom in the Orphanage belongs to the Keeper, but it also not much of interest here. Vatalya is a very simple person, who prefers to keep her space sparse. There is a bed, a bookcase, and a door to a small private bathroom.

A DC 12 Investigation check of the room will reveal a book about the binding of Bel Shalor by Tira Miron, and a small replica of a sword (Kloinjer) on her bookcase.

### Scene 2: The Hideout

The statue of Tira Miron in central Daskaran leads to the local hideout of the Tarnished. A deep red gem on the sword's (Kloinjer) pommel is a button that can be pressed to cause the statue to move and reveal the hideout. As they explore the hideout, it should be made clear that this is the Tarnished at work.

The players should not be encouraged to fight any people, so when they get to the hideout, there's no Templar there. But there is danger - a Tiger is seemingly guarding the cell that Onme's friend is in. Have the players do a group DC 12 Stealth check as they descend into the hideout, with a failure (half or more players) revealing their presence to the Tiger. The Tiger then gets a surprise round and will attack, otherwise the players can deal with it as they please.

`encounter: 1: Tiger`

The kidnapped girl is passed out in the cell. When Onme approaches her, her hands start to glow and the girl wakes up! This is a scene showing her Lay on Hands work for the very first time.

They should be able to slip out without being detected, but if they decide to do crazy things then Keeper Vatayla will appear and bring them back to the Orphanage.

### Conclusion

After Onme and her best friend re-unite, we flash forward again another year. Representatives from the Church have arrived yet again, but this time they're here to take the young Dragonborn. They will take her to Flamekeep regardless, but Onme can decide what she wants to do - possibly convince the Church members to take her as well, or to stick around the Orphanage (in which case she is taken by the church the next year). Regardless of which direction Onme decides to take it, the flashback ends and Onme finds herself back in Syrania.
