#adventure #completed [[Therendor (Syrania)]] [[Throne of Life]] [[Vyrael]] [[Castiel]]

> Your ship flies through an endless expanse of perfect blue skies, stretching off into the horizon. There’s no sign of the sun, but the sky is clear and bright, and floating crystal towers gleam as if caught in a sunbeam. A warm, gentle breeze brushes over you, and there’s a faint sound of distant chimes. You feel absolutely calm; in this moment, all anger melts away.
> Large floating towers dot the skyline, with winged creatures clearly seen flying between them. But the distant cities are much less interesting than what’s right below you - the largest market you’ve ever seen in your life. As your ship slowly descents to land on a designated cloud, you see a golden pedestal is the only prominent feature in the immediate area.

The golden pedestal has on top of it a nine-cornered gold coin which is blank on both sides. Engravings on the pedestal, written in Celestial, clearly instruct visitors to flip the coin, and given the “Universal Understanding” principle of the plane, all players know they can somehow read it. If they flip it, then have them roll a straight d20 (luck roll), with the result determining how the coin lands, along with the symbol on and power of the coin.

`dice: [[3. Therendor, The Healer#^syrania-golden-pedestal]]`

| dice: 1d20 | Landing Face and Symbol          | Power                                                                                                                                                  |
| ---------- | -------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| 1, 20      | Lands on its side, remains blank (Onatar) | Players have advantage on Persuasion checks against haggling in the Forge District of the Immeasurable Market, and disadvantage in other districts |
| 2-10       | Heads, Gold Octogram (Kol Korran)   | Players have advantage on Persuasion checks against haggling in the Commerce District of the Immeasurable Market, and disadvantage in other districts  |
| 11-19      | Tails, Purple Dagger (The Keeper)   | Players have advantage on Persuasion checks against haggling in the Invention District of the Immeasurable Market, and disadvantage in other district      |
^syrania-golden-pedestal

### The Open Sky

The Open Sky is the vast blue expanse from which the Azure Sky takes its name. The clear, bright, sunless sky shows no signs of passing time; the moon Therendor can be seen, but it doesn’t move or have phases. Despite the Open Sky’s seemingly infinite space, it wraps around on itself, effectively making it a 300-mile sphere. So while it takes a significant time to travel between the farthest points, it is possible. There are no native threats in the Open Sky, and all visitors to Syrania have the ability to fly; the catch is knowing where to go, as there are hundreds of spires.

### The Immeasurable Market

> You look out across a market that appears to never end, with stalls composed of everything from temporary stands and tents to permanent stone structures. You can see customers and merchants from across the planes, including the Material Plane. To one side, a slaadi haggles with a modron over the price of hippogriff eggs; to the other, a sly dao shows a Shavaran balor a selection of Fernia-forged blades. It’s said that anything you can imagine— and many things you can’t— can be found in the Immeasurable Market.

The Immeasurable Market is divided into three districts - each of which dedicated to one of the Three Faces of Coin. The Forge District is dedicated to Onatar and contains blacksmiths and armorers. The Invention District is dedicated to Kol Turrant and contains artificers and magic shops. The Commerce district is dedicated to Kol Korran and contains any shops and money traders that don’t fit in the other districts.

When the players arrive and start looking around for a shop, roll on the table below for a random merchant. Alternatively, if they’re looking for a particular service you can just have them find it.

`dice: [[3. Therendor, The Healer's Moon#^syrania-merchants]]`

| d8 | Immeasurable Merchant | District |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | The Last Resort is a tavern where angels and devils drink together, where fey share stories while slaadi do shots. The barkeep Solace is the Dominion of Hospitality; he’s got a sympathetic ear for patrons and knows the perfect drink for any occasion. | Commerce |
| 2 | Jabra the night hag is an alchemist of exceptional skill. She bottles stolen dreams and nightmares, and sells unique potions with remarkable powers. She peddles her goods from an eye-catching tent of red dragonhide, and when she’s not in the Market, she can often be found selling her goods in Graywall. | Invention |
| 3 | Sar Saeran the dao is the finest weaponsmith in Fernia. Sometimes he has goods for sale, but he also comes to the Market to discuss commissions. | Forge |
| 4 | Mazalene is the Dominion of Rumors, and she only trades in kind. Anyone who has a particularly interesting story to share with her can get an intriguing—and possibly true— tale from this angel. | Invention |
| 5 | The Hoard is the storefront of the ancient gold dragon Halazaryx, who settled in Syrania after some differences of opinion with the Conclave of Argonnessen. Hal has a collection of interesting relics tied to historical figures in Khorvaire, and is always interested in trading for items that have fascinating stories. | Commerce |
| 6 | Lady Ash is a githyanki merchant who sells the plunder claimed by her city-ship, Zaeran’s Sword. Her goods depend on the Sword’s most recent target. | Forge |
| 7 | Bor’ob is a slaadi merchant specializing in extradimensional spaces: bags of holding, handy haversacks, and the like. He’s usually a gray slaad, but it varies from week to week. | Commerce |
| 8 | Slade is the Dominion of Art. They craft and play magical instruments, and may be willing to sell an instrument, a song, or a performance. | Invention |
^syrania-merchants

For each market, optionally roll on the table below to determine the type of currency they accept. 

`dice: [[3. Therendor, The Healer's Moon#^syrania-currencies]]`

| d8 | Immeasurable Currency |
| --- | --- |
| 1 | Angel Tears. These translucent coins are one of the only active currencies in the Immeasurable Market. They’re produced by the Throne of Commerce and honored by most dominions and virtues. For simplicity’s sake, they could be assigned a value in gold pieces, so a Dominion might pay adventurers 100 gp in angel tears for a minor service. These are useful when you want to buy a drink at the tavern without selling your soul. |
| 2 | Dragonshards. Dragonshards are unique to Eberron, and there are merchants who take a great interest in them— especially Khyber dragonshards, which can be used to bind spirits. |
| 3 | Luck. Some merchants literally let you spend your fortune. Luck is measured in “dice.” Each die you spend allows the DM to give you disadvantage on a future d20 roll of their choosing. So if you spend five dice to acquire an item, that’s five difficult rolls in your future. |
| 4 | Trade Goods. Many merchants are primarily interested in things they can resell. What’s valuable to an immortal may not seem valuable to a mortal; an item that is unique or has emotional significance may have value to an Immeasurable merchant even if it doesn’t do anything. So it’s possible a treasured trinket holds more trade value than a legendary magic item. |
| 5 | Odd Organs. Some merchants like to deal in the body parts of unusual creatures— unicorn horns, a dragon’s heart, a demon’s eye. They may be willing to sell something on the promise of future delivery, but there’s usually a fixed time to complete the transaction. |
| 6 | Services. Merchants may well barter goods in exchange for a promise of service, either immediately or to be performed in the future. Remember that oaths sworn in the Market carry great weight; those who break a vow can end up facing a tribunal in Daanvi. |
| 7 | A Performance. There are merchants who trade goods in exchange for a performance of some sort. Usually this is about quality; they’ll sell you the dagger for a song, but it needs to be an epic performance. Can you succeed on a DC 20 Charisma (Performance) check? |
| 8 | A Soul. These aren’t a common form of currency, but some immortals trade in souls... if not your own, this is usually about promising to kill someone! A soul traded in this way becomes the possession of the immortal upon death instead of it going to Dolurrh; this eliminates any possibility of resurrection unless the soul is reclaimed. |
^syrania-currencies

To determine the stock at a particular shop, roll on the tables in the [[Trinkets of the Planes]] item - either several from a few random planes, or several from one particular plane if appropriate for the shop. These can be added to DMG traditional shop items if desired.

Some shop is also selling [[Armor of Vulnerability]], which is a magical cursed item (that would be great for Onme).

### The University

> A group of various multi-colored crystal spires make up what’s known on Syrania simply as The University. Each spire seems clearly decorated in accordance with a domain of study, from a beautiful hanging garden to a vast open library.

When the players first arrive at The University, they are approached by a 9 foot tall impossibly beautiful angel called the Throne of Life. Thrones have no name, and only go by their title, but this particular Throne is essentially an ancestor to [[Onme Nanvia Donverou]], and would immediately recognize her Aasimar power as being derived from Syrania. The Throne can show the players around The University and introduce each of the crystal towers and the Domains.

The Throne of Knowledge maintains the University of Syrania, where chosen students can study an astonishing array of subjects. The catch is that students need to be admitted... and there isn’t actually a process for applying. At the moment, the University only has twenty students, chosen from across the planes by roaming virtues.

For planar travelers who come to Syrania, the University is a good repository of general knowledge; if the scholarly virtues can’t help, they’ll likely know the way to a dominion that can.

#### Locations

**Celestial Café:** This coffee shop, located near the Hall of Knowledge, is composed of tables that float among the clouds of the Azure Sky. Angel students can often be found studying and sipping beverages here. The café is technically managed by Solace, the Dominion of Hospitality, but he spends most of his time at the Market.

```ad-info
title: Menu

* Angelicano - Coffee diluted with water.
* Cherubccino - A coffee drink with steamed milk and foam.
* Spiritualatte - A coffee drink with steamed milk and frothed milk - available in a variety of flavors and either hot or iced.
* The Sun's Glory - A citrusy cider that makes your eyes glow like an Aasimar.
* Good Hearth's Brew - A hot spiced rum which is popular among students for the immediate feeling of warmth and calm that follows.
```

**Hall of Knowledge:** This transparent crystalline central tower is both the primary library of The University, as well as the administrative building. It includes the office of the Throne of Knowledge, who runs The University.

**Auditorium of Arcana:** The violet crystalline tower for the domain of Arcana is segmented into multi-colored classrooms for each school of magic and elemental type, all surrounding a large auditorium that's a communal spot to practice and discuss all types of magic.

**Amphitheater of Art:** The orange crystalline tower for the domain of Art is both an expansive gallery for all types of art, as well as an expansive amphitheater surrounding the tower that's used for all matter of oratory and theater.

**College of Commerce:** This blue crystalline tower for the domain of Commerce is located closest to the Immeasurable Market, where students frequent to either work or learn.

**Lectuary of Life and Death:** The yellow crystalline tower for the domain of Life and the indigo crystalline tower for the domain of Death are located right next to each other, and are treated almost as a single unit by the students and staff of The University. Here the dichotomy of life and death is discussed endlessly.

**Nursery of Nature:** The green crystalline tower for the domain of Nature is a beautiful hanging garden, with plants from all over the planes.

**Warren of War:** This cluster of smaller, tightly grouped red crystalline towers serves as home to the domain of War. Outdoor spaces between the towers (which serve primarily as living space) are used to practice military technique.

##### Syranian Domains

Each virtue, dominion, and throne is dedicated to contemplation and mastery of a domain. Here are some example domains, along with skills and spells that any dominion or throne dedicated to it would likely have; virtues might also be able to cast a couple spells from their associated domain.

**Arcana**. At will: detect magic, identify, magic missile. 3/day: dispel magic, magic circle, Nystul’s magic aura, remove curse. 1/day: antimagic field, planar binding, teleportation circle. Skills: Arcana.

**Art**. At will: minor illusion, phantasmal force. 3/day: enthrall, programmed illusion, seeming, suggestion. 1/day: mass suggestion, Otto’s irresistible dance, project image. Skills: Performance, tool or instrument proficiency.

**Commerce**. At will: charm person, comprehend languages, detect thoughts. 3/day: dominate person, fabricate, sending, telepathic bond. 1/day: creation, glibness, mind blank. Skills: Insight, Persuasion.

**Death**. At will: ray of sickness, speak with dead. 3/day: animate dead, blight, death ward, vampiric touch. 1/day: antilife shell, cloudkill, finger of death. Skills: Medicine.

**Knowledge**. At will: augury, command, identify. 3/day: confusion, legend lore, scrying, true seeing. 1/day: commune, feeblemind, foresight. Skills: History.

**Life**. At will: cure wounds, spare the dying. 3/day: beacon of hope, death ward, greater restoration, revivify. 1/day: heal, mass cure wounds, raise dead. Skills: Medicine.

**Nature**. At will: animal friendship, druidcraft, speak with animals. 3/day: commune with nature, dominate beast, grasping vine, plant growth. 1/day: animal shapes, control weather, insect plague. Skills: Nature, Survival.

**War**. At will: magic weapon, shield of faith. 3/day: banishing smite, crusader’s mantle, freedom of movement, spiritual weapon, warding bond. 1/day: blade barrier, holy aura. Skills: Medicine.

### Solar City

> The city of the angels is composed of floating towers which have comparatively few inhabitants— not so few that they feel desolate or barren, just enough so that it always feels slow and peaceful. Crystal spires serving as homes can be seen bobbing around an enormous central fountain. A floating portal can barely be seen in the distance of the city, guarded by an angel.

The city of the angels is composed of floating towers and is ruled over by the most powerful type of angel known as a Solar, who goes by Castiel. These towers have comparatively few inhabitants, and the central fountain is filled with water that has the properties of *holy water*.

A permanent gate to Sharn is present in Solar City as well, and it’s guarded by a group called The Burning Host. Vyrael, the Ashen Sword, Eighth among the Burning Host of Syrania, is stationed as the guardian of this portal.
* When angels of Syrania become corrupted, they are cast out by their brethren, ripped of their wings and sent to the Material Plane. These angels are now Radiant Idols, and often serve the cause of evil.

### Windmount

> A large mountain can be seen rising from a misty cloud, where the bottom of the mountain can't actually be seen. It rises to a misty peak obscured by swirling clouds, and you can see bird-like creatures flying all around it. This entire view is almost obscured by an impossibly large brewing storm that appears to be engulfing the entire area.

This area is the home of the Aarakocra, who follow a woman named Akadi. Akadi is the Dominion of Nature at The University, but has become corrupted in some way, and is now actively creating a magical storm around the floating mountain of Windmount.

This mini-game, played on a grid and entirely in initiative, involves the players trying to make their way through the storm from one end of the board to Windmount on the opposite end, while avoiding obstacles that appear periodically. The storm itself is 200 feet tall (with the players starting in the middle), and is about 120 feet long and about 100 feet wide (the size of the grid board).
* To start, the global wind direction is set to north (but can change with the Wind Shift Lair Action, see below) so that players can move toward the mountain at their regular speed. Any time a random direction is called for, roll 1d4 to determine the direction: with 1 being north, 2 being east, 3 being south, and 4 being west.  `dice:[[Random Tables#^random-directions-4]]`
* At initiative 20, a new Lair Action occurs, so roll on the table below (with any monster encounters or otherwise denoted effects appearing on a random square on the board). All other board elements are also updated, so any spawned monsters can move, previous Lair Actions with a duration decrement by one round (and can move one square with the wind direction in case of clouds and other persistent effects), and any expired Lair Actions are removed. Use markers in different colors to denote different effects, and mark the duration with a dry erase marker (or a d4) on each.
* Each player takes actions as normal on their initiative, which may include moving closer to the mountain or addressing obstacles that arise (such as fighting monsters).
* Players will also need to track their height relative to the bottom of the storm, with each starting at 100 feet above. If they fall to 0 feet or rise above 200 feet, then they are blown outside of the storm and will need to start over at the starting square on the board. If at any time a player is restrained or incapacitated, then they start to fall and continue to fall at a rate of 100 feet per round (slower than freefall due to winds), so they'll generally hit the bottom of the storm on their next turn.

`dice: [[3. Therendor, The Healer's Moon#^therendor-windmount-lair-actions]]`

If the players make it to the mountain at the end of the board, the game ends and they discover that Akadi is there in a crazed state casting spell after spell to keep the storm going. They can do something to disrupt her magic, attempt to talk her down, or some other solution to end the storm. If stopped, she seems confused and won't recall anything she has done.

```ad-info
title: Swarms
collapse: closed

The "clouds" and "packs" below operate mechanically as a swarm:

* When an attack or effect would target a single creature, it effects the entire swarm as if it was a single creature, meaning that it may be able to damage more than 1 creature in the swarm if it deals enough damage.

* Instead of tracking each creature in the swarm's health independently, instead keep track of the total damage taken by the swarm. When the damage taken exceeds the health of a single individual, remove one unit from the size of that swarm, and reduce the total by the hit point maximum of a single individual in the swarm.

* When a swarm makes an attack roll, ability check, or saving throw, add the number of creatures in the swarm to the roll instead of their ordinary modifier. For example, a cloud of steam mephits composed of 7 creatures would have a +7 to hit instead of a +2.

* A swarm uses the normal attacks and damage that an individual would have access to. For each creature in the swarm beyond the first, add each creature's relevant damage bonus beyond the die roll (minimum of 1) to the damage of these attacks. Typically, this will be the ability modifier used to make the attack, though some features may add more to this bonus damage. For example, the steam mephit cloud above would do 1d4+7 (9) for their claw attack.
```

| d20 | Lair Action                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | Duration          |
| --- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------- |
| 1   | `encounter: 1: Roc` (CR 11)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |                   |
| 2   | `encounter: 1: Invisible Stalker` (CR 6)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |                   |
| 3   | `encounter: 1: Air Elemental` (CR 5)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |                   |
| 4   | **Lightning Bolt.** Each creature must make a Dexterity saving throw (DC 17). A creature takes `dice:8d6` lightning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | Instantaneous     |
| 5   | **Thunderwave.** Each creature must make a Constitution saving throw (DC 17). On a failed save, a creature takes `dice:2d8` thunder damage and is pushed 10 feet away from the mountain. On a successful save, the creature takes half as much damage and isn't pushed.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | Instantaneous     |
| 6   | **Cold Front.** Each creature must make a Dexterity saving throw (DC 17). A creature takes `dice:2d6` cold damage and be pushed away from the mountain by 10 feet on a failed save, or half as much damage and not pushed back on a successful one.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Instantaneous     |
| 7   | **Warm Front.** Each creature must make a Dexterity saving throw (DC 17). A creature takes `dice:2d6` fire damage and be pushed away from the mountain by 10 feet on a failed save, or half as much damage and not pushed back on a successful one.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Instantaneous     |
| 8   | **Storm Sphere.** A 15-foot-radius sphere of whirling air springs into existence centered on a random point. Each creature in the sphere when it appears or that ends its turn there must succeed on a Strength saving throw (DC 17) or take `dice:2d6` bludgeoning damage. The sphere’s space is difficult terrain. Each round, a bolt of lightning can leap from the center of the sphere toward one creature within 60 feet. Make an attack roll (+10 to hit), and on a hit the target takes `dice:4d6` lightning damage.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | `dice:1d4` rounds |
| 9   | **Wind Wall.** A wall of strong wind surrounds the mountain. Each creature in the wall when it appears or that ends its turn there must make a Strength saving throw (DC 17). A creature takes `dice:3d8` bludgeoning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | `dice:1d4` rounds |
| 10  | **Whirlwind.** A 10-foot-radius, 200-foot-high cylinder centered on a random point appears on the board. A creature must make a Dexterity saving throw (DC 17) the first time on a turn that it enters the whirlwind or that the whirlwind enters its space, including when the whirlwind first appears. A creature takes `dice:10d6` bludgeoning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. In addition, a creature that fails the save must succeed on a Strength saving throw (DC 17) or become restrained in the whirlwind until the effect ends. When a creature starts its turn restrained by the whirlwind, the creature is pulled 10 feet higher inside it, unless the creature is at the top. A restrained creature moves with the whirlwind and falls when the spell ends, unless the creature has some means to stay aloft. | `dice:1d4` rounds |
| 11  | **Gust of Wind.** A line of strong wind blasts from the mountain. Each creature that starts its turn while the gust is active must succeed on a Strength saving throw (DC 17) or be pushed 15 feet away from the mountain. Any creature attempting to move closer to the mountain must spend 2 feet of movement for every 1 foot it moves.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | `dice:1d4` rounds |
| 12  | **Warding Wind.** A strong wind blows around a random point on the board in a 10-foot radius sphere. The area is difficult terrain for all creatures, and attack rolls of ranged weapon attacks have disadvantage if the attacks pass in or out of the wind.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | `dice:1d4` rounds |
| 13  | **Stinking Cloud.** A 15-foot-radius sphere of yellow, nauseating gas springs into existence centered on a random point. Each creature that is completely within the cloud at the start of its turn must make a Constitution saving throw (DC 17) against poison. On a failed save, the creature is poisoned, spends its Action that turn retching and reeling and falls 10 feet. Creatures that don't need to breathe or are immune to poison automatically succeed on this saving throw.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | `dice:1d4` rounds |
| 14  | **Cyclone.** A 10-foot-radius, 50-foot-high cyclone centered on a random point appears on the board. A creature must succeed on a Strength saving throw (DC 17) or be blown off course, moving a random direction by the number of squares the roll was below the DC.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | `dice:1d4` rounds |
| 15  | **Turbulence.** A 15-foot-radius sphere of whirling air springs into existence centered on a random point. Each creature in the sphere when it appears or that ends its turn there must succeed on a Constitution saving throw (DC 17), or lose concentration on any spells and drop 10 feet.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | `dice:1d4` rounds |
| 16  | Cloud of `encounter: 1d6: Ice Mephit` (CR 1/2)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |                   |
| 17  | Cloud of `encounter: 1d6: Dust Mephit` (CR 1/2)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |                   |
| 18  | Cloud of `encounter: 1d6: Steam Mephit` (CR 1/4)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |                   |
| 19  | Pack of `encounter: 1d6: Aarakocra` (CR 1/4)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |                   |
| 20  | **Wind Shift.** The wind changes to a random direction. You move at regular speed with it, but at half speed against it. This is a global wind that effects everyone on the board.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | Ongoing           |
^therendor-windmount-lair-actions

#### Church of Akadi

The teachings of the Church of Akadi stress finding one's own enlightenment. The faithful are encouraged to explore their interests as well as the world to pursue their dreams. The church is confident that any resistance to their doctrines will be eroded over time. It is considered a grave crime to fetter or otherwise imprison one faithful to Akadi.

### References

* Windmount Inspiration: Thunderhead from Skyward Sword, plus Rex's board game mini-games.