#adventure #completed [[Eyre (Fernia)]] [[Ashe]] [[Azhalar]] [[Brass]] [[Phlain]] [[Naja Ash]] [[Raqashtar]] [[Sar Saeran]] [[Shashraqa]]

> A massive shard of basalt rises out of a vast ocean of magma. A castle sprawls atop the peak, a glittered fortress sculpted from brass. Firefalls of lava tumble down the edge of the spire. A flight of red dragons takes to the air, circling the castle and creating a dazzling spectacle of synchronized flames.
> While the castle is most prominent as you look over the Sea of Flames, it’s far from the only thing you see. Smaller estates dot islands around the largest city just south of the castle. Various other islands dotting the Sea include large industrial machines, flaming forests, and even a pleasant looking inn.

The ship sets down on a dock jutting out into lava at the edge of the city. If they go north, they can get to the City of Brass and the castle at its center. If they go any other direction, they can explore the islands in the Sea of Fire. Either way, be sure they meet Phlain as early as possible.

### The City of Brass

> You arrive at a metropolitan city, a place of marvels.  Here, a towering statue of an efreeti holds a sphere of continual flame the size of an airship. A variety of mansions dot the city, and fiery salamanders and dwarf-like creatures can be seen entering and exiting. The streets are filled with mephits, salamanders, and the occasional elemental, but there’s not another humanoid in sight. Circles made of flame and inscribed with Ignan symbols ring the city, and north of the city is the great castle seen from the skies.

As the players arrive in the City of Brass, introduce either Phlain ("Meeting Phlain") or the escaped half-orc Rone ("Brass Collar Blues").

[[City of Brass]]

### Brass Collar Blues

As characters being to travel through the City of Brass, they pass by a darkened alley. Shrouded in crimson shadows between two plain basalt buildings with brass domed roofs, the alley is nondescript except for the sound of scuffling and a tortured voice calling for help.

>The shadows cast by the basalt buildings in the alley do not muffle the grunting of a plainly dressed half-orc, doubled over in pain. A trio of dwarves with flames in place of beard and hair, their eyes and skin like molten copper, stand over the crumpled figure. The half-orc staggers toward you, tears welling in his eyes, the brass collar around his neck glinting as it catches a bit of light.

Rone, a half-orc, has just escaped from High Hearth, the home of Sultan Azhalar. Running through the alleys of the City of Brass, Rone runs into the characters just as a squad of azer slave keepers arrive. Rone still wears a brass collar around his neck (marking him as property) and the azer soldiers, charged with keeping slaves in line across the city, immediately suspected the half-orc of being a runaway.

They azer snarl at the characters to stay out of their business and then move forward to bludgeon Rone. The half-orc is clearly outmatched and bears no weapons. Unless the characters intervene, Rone is beaten unconscious by the azer and then hauled away to a nearby slave keeper tower for processing. If the party engages with the azer, they attack without mercy. If one is reduced to 0 hp, one of the remaining azer flee back down the alley as quickly as possible to fetch assistance. Unless stopped, the azer returns after 1d4 minutes with a squad of ten azer from the closest slave keeper tower.

`encounter: 3: Azer`

##### Breaking the Brass Collar

Once the azer are defeated, Rone begs for the characters to help him. He is wounded, down to only 4 hp, and unarmed (use the statistics of a CN bandit). If he has any chance of escaping, he needs help getting the brass collar removed from his neck – if he tries to leave the plane while wearing it, the magic of the item will consume his life. There is someone in the City of Brass that can remove the item but Rone needs help to get to them. He can’t offer the characters much in terms of payment but he has been in the city most of his life; the half-orc knows some secret ways into many buildings around the City of Brass. He also knows the Sultan's manor, if they needed to get in there for some reason.

The one person Rone knows that can remove a brass collar is a dao smith named Vakees. Rone doesn’t know why the dao does it but the creature is rumored to hate the efreet more than anything. The half-orc knows Vakees operates out of Dir al-Nasar, a shop in the Pyraculum district. Traveling there without attracting attention with Rone requires a group DC 12 Wisdom (Stealth) check. If the characters disguise Rone, either with magic or a disguise kit, they all gain advantage on the roll. If they fail, they run into a patrol of three azer slave soldiers but they can be persuaded to leave with a DC 13 Charisma (Persuasion or Intimidation) check.

##### Dir al-Nasar

Vakees’ workshop is tucked away in an alley off the main streets of the City of Brass, in a district known as Pyraculum. Vakees is accompanied by his two imp assistants, Flirrp and Gruup, who stand in front of their shop at the end of the alley. They are working on forging a piece of armor when the runes misfire suddenly, creating an explosion and plumes of smoke. With their immunity to fire, the creatures were inconvenienced but are otherwise unharmed.

Vakees is cold (figuratively) and calculating, and does an admirable job of hiding his utter disgust for every other living creature. He hates efreet most of all, for reasons he does not divulge. He does know how to remove a brass collar, but if the subject comes up, he glances around nervously and ushers them inside the shop. The interior of the smith is a meticulously organized workshop centered around a large black anvil and a nearby forge. Vakees listens to Rone as he explains his predicament, and the dao's eyes constantly dart between the half-orc and the characters to gauge their interest in the situation.

Once done, Vakees coolly explains that he can remove the brass collar and that he only asks for one thing in return — the characters owe him a favor, to be repaid in the future. This is his one requirement. If they agree, the dao nods and pulls a long rod of black obsidian from a closet. He sticks the rod in the forge for a few minutes, watching as it heats up to an incredible temperature, and then nods for Rone to come close. Vakees swiftly grabs the half-orc in one hand to steady him and, in one smooth motion, pulls out the obsidian rod from the forge and pushes it against the brass collar. Spidery cracks appear on it and after a moment it breaks into two pieces, its magic spent.

##### Aftermath

Rone is incredibly grateful to the characters and promises to pay them back somehow. He knows a manifest zone to Xen'drik, in the Field of Firepeppers that he can use to escape Fernia. He happily shares the details of the manifest zone with the characters in case they need to use it at some point.
* The manifest zone at the Field of Firepeppers connects to the Ash Cauldrons in southern Xen'drik.

Vakees has no current need for the characters, but he believes in being prepared – and having a party of adventurers in his debt makes him pretty prepared.

### Meeting Phlain

> Close to you, a voice comes quickly into focus. A deep, rolling voice that sounds like a burning bonfire. You turn around, and come face to face with a muscular man made of fire. A smile spreads across his face and a smaller creature with blue skin and fiery red hair steps out from behind him. “Hello old friends. Welcome to my home.”

The Efreeti is Phlain, one of Bystan’s fathers. And the other individual is Bystan, who has found his father and settled in to the Plane of Fire since leaving the party.

##### The Life of the Party

Phlain has a plan to unseat the Sultan Azhalar with his next gala. And what’s in fashion at the moment? Adventurers. Will the party help him, with a promise to reward them well if they make the gala a success? Can the characters shine at a party of efreet and dao? Do they know which fork to use, especially when one of them is on fire? What happens when Azhalar’s salamander general challenges a party member to a duel?

[[4. Life of the Party]]

### The Sea of Fire

#### Efreeti Estates

Each of the noble efreet have a sprawling palace or mansion on an island in the Sea of Fire. While not so grand as the City of Brass, these estates are studies in opulence, filled with dao-crafted wonders and sculptures of metal and flame.

If the players arrive at the Efreeti Estates and haven’t met Phlain, have him appear first.

#### Foundries

Foundry islands are models of industry, and the domain of the azer. Some are focused primarily on physical engineering, with vast gears and wheels slowly turning, and chains rising and falling. Others reflect arcane industry, with blazing glyphs and fields of shimmering energy. Some islands are forests of metallic-trees - instead of wood and bark they are made out of pure metals like silver and gold - which the azer harvest for the metals to be worked.

#### Deep Halls

Under the foundries, tunnels extend down below the Sea of Fire into the earth below. These are the domains of the dao. Like the foundries above them, each has a distinct style tied to the sensibilities of the dao who dwells there. Streams of lava and pools of fire run through the halls, along with veins of metal and minerals. While not as luxurious as the estates of the efreeti, these often showcase the wondrous creations of the dao in residence; adventurers could find a hall whose walls are decorated with a thousand swords, or a brass garden filled with cunning construct songbirds. But some dao are paranoid, and deep halls can also contain a host of powerful and deadly traps.

#### The Charred City

> This inferno is a burning city, where devils direct bombardment and demons dance about, spreading the flames within.

Many of the random islands dotted throughout the Sea of Fire don’t have much of interest on them, like this one.

#### The Flaming Forest

> This inferno contains a lone balor overseeing the devastation of an ancient forest. These fires never end; parts of the layer are rebuilt even as others are consumed, and the inferno continues forever.

Many of the random islands dotted throughout the Sea of Fire don’t have much of interest on them, like this one.

#### Field of Firepeppers

An island off of The Flaming Forest houses a manifest zone to the The Volcanic Fields of Xen'drik, and a large number of Fernian Firepepper plants.

Firepepper is a rare plant found in Xen'drik. It is native only to the burning plains linked to the plane of Fernia. Coveted by chefs and gourmands across Khorvaire, firepeppers are sought for their intense flavor and heat. Just one firepepper could be sold for up to 10 gp in Sharn.

#### The Lonely Campfire

> This island in the Sea of Fire is a forested clearing with a single campfire, a lonely light out in the darkest wilderness.

Many of the random islands dotted throughout the Sea of Fire don’t have much of interest on them, like this one.

#### The First Hearth

This campfire island is an inn called the First Hearth, where the angelic barkeep Ashe offers warm drinks around the fireplace from which the inn takes its name. Campfire layers are safe havens, and a perfect place for travelers to rest.

If the players arrive at the First Hearth and haven’t met Phlain, have him appear first.

```ad-info
title: Menu

* The Flaming Dragon - A spicy beer that causes the user to breathe fire when they burp.
* Faerie Fireball - a delicious cinnamon whiskey made with a touch of Fey magic. Causes uncontrollable hiccups for 1d4 hours. With each hiccup a small cloud of shimmering breath is released.
* The Phoenix - A peppery drink that burns on the way down, and then again on the way out. It is often used as a prank on drunk companions, who have a nasty surprise waiting for them the next time they go to relieve themselves.
* Firepepper Gin - an herbal drink made from Firepeppers that has a lingering burn which doesn't kick in until several minutes after drinking.
```


### The Sultan's Palace (High Hearth)

Hight Hearth serves as the seat of power for the Great Sultan of the Efreet. The current inhabitant is Great Sultan Phlain.

Dark basalt was used to construct most of the structure of the palace. The basalt is so dark that it appears to drain light from the flames surrounding the city. Gold, brass, and copper were used to cover many of the towers and domes of the palace.

##### Throne Room
Where the Sultan governs Fernia from day to day. In the center point is a large throne shaped like a red dragon, above which is a symbol of a stylized sun (Dol Arrah).

##### Training Room
This room is a training and exercise room for those who fight for the Sultan in any capacity. Duels and other traditional forms of fighting are most respected in Fernia. The symbol of a shield and crossed sword (Dol Dorn) adorns the walls.

##### Dragon Courtyard
An open courtyard situated behind the throne room is the space dedicated to training and otherwise interacting with the Sultan's red dragon brood. The symbol of sharp weapons arranged in a hexagram pattern (Dol Azure) dot the floor tiles, and the entire space is open to the air, where the dragons often fly off and circle the palace.

##### Sultan's Bedchamber
The Sultan's private room is opulent, with beautiful brass fixtures, an unnecessarily large four-poster bed, and everything the Sultan could possibly need or want. A private bathroom, dressing room, and dining room surround the bedchamber itself.

##### Master Bedroom (Bystan's)
The master bedroom is where Bystan sleeps. While less opulent than the Sultan's bedchamber, it is still incredibly well adorned, contains a large bed, and connects to a separate private bathroom and dressing room.

### References

* Many locations pulled from Forgotten Realms' Elemental Plane of Fire (City of Brass, etc.)
* Could draw additional inspiration from Planescape: Phlegetrios (Baator), most layers of Gehenna