#adventure #completed [[Eyre (Fernia)]] [[Ashe]] [[Azhalar]] [[Brass]] [[Phlain]] [[Naja Ash]] [[Raqashtar]] [[Sar Saeran]] [[Shashraqa]]

### Background

[[4. Eyre, the Anvil]]

Phlain has a plan to unseat the Sultan Azhalar with his next gala. And what’s in fashion at the moment? Adventurers. Will the party help him, with a promise to reward them well if they make the gala a success? Can the characters shine at a party of efreet and dao? Do they know which fork to use, especially when one of them is on fire? What happens when Azhalar’s salamander general challenges a party member to a duel?

### Hook(s)

* When the players meet Phlain, and anytime thereafter if they refuse initially, he tries to convince them to help with his plan. Bystan can also plead for their help.

### Synopsis

- The characters wander the party at their leisure, using their time to schmooze the attendees and convincing them to support Phlain as Sultan. Some activities will give them bonuses to their rolls when trying to chat someone up.
- Once enough people have been convinced to tip the scales, Phlain challenges the existing Sultan to a duel, as is tradition. The party will fight for him in battle, and success will mean that Phlain takes the throne.

### Scene 1: The Party

Each person at the party will need to support Phlain in his challenge against the sultan, but none do initially. The party will need to convince each with a DC 20 Persuasion check that can be modified with various bonuses obtained by doing activities during the party (see below, any bonuses stack). They will need to do a favor for each party goer before they’ll even be able to convince them. The party goers (the same NPCs from around the plane) and what they know are below:
- **Shashraqa** (Female Efreet Aristocrat): Considers herself to be a connoisseur of art, and will ask the players to show her a unique piece of art before she’ll seriously talk to them.
	- This could be a unique object they’re already carrying, or they could create something using an appropriate tool or a Performance (Wisdom) check.
- **Raqashtar** (Male Efreet Aristocrat): Has an appetite for gambling, and will ask the players for a little wager before he’ll seriously talk to them.
	- If they don't suggest anything else, then Raqashtar will suggest a little gambling game played around the plane, where you have to guess how long a small flame will stay lit before it goes out.
	- The player making the wager and Raqashtar (by rolling a d20) will each guess how many seconds the flame will stay lit, from 1 to 20 seconds. Then roll a d20 to determine how long the flame actually stays lit, and the closest person wins.
	- Raqashtar will acquiesce to conversation regardless of who wins. If the players suggests a small wager (10g or less) then he'll agree.
- **Naja Ash** (Female Dao Sculptor): A sculptor who works with fire, she will want the players to show her an interesting fire effect before she’ll seriously talk to them.
	- This will likely be a fire-based spell with a creative flair, but can be any interesting manipulation of fire.
- **Sar Saeran** (Male Dao Blacksmith): The foremost blacksmith in the realm, he will want to see a masterfully crafted weapon or armor before he’ll seriously talk to them.
- **Brass** (Female Dao Architect): Brass is the finest architect of the dao, fan of the towers of Sharn, and intrigued by unusual architecture, especially sculptures that transform into something far larger. She will need to be shown something of interest to her before she'll speak to them.
- **Ashe** (Angel Bartender): As a famed bartender, they will want to be presented a unique beverage or a masterfully mixed cocktail before seriously talking to the players.
	- This may mean using a spell to create a beverage (such as *goodberry* to make goodberry wine) or a Sleight of Hand (Dexterity) check (DC 15) to mix a fanciful cocktail using the ingredient on the bar.

Each of the activities below can provide bonuses as well, but can only be done once, regardless of how many players attempt it.

##### Perform with the Band

A player, preferably proficient in Performance, can ask the band leader about sitting in for a song or two. It takes a DC 15 Persuasion (Charisma) check to convince the band leader to let the characters perform a song or two. On a success, the player(s) can do a Performance (Charisma) check to determine how well the song goes. On an 18+, the players gain a +2 bonus to Persuasion checks while at the party. On a 12+, the players gain a +1 bonus.

##### Take to the Dance Floor

The dance of the event is called the caravan. It’s a dance for couples similar to the tango, with many flourishes and lots of movement across the dance floor. If any players take to the dance floor, they spend at least 20 minutes making a good impression, and make a Performance (Dexterity) check. On an 18+, the crowd is extremely impressed with the performance and the players gain a +2 bonus to Persuasion checks while at the party. On a 12+, the dance is passible and the party still gains a +1 bonus.

##### Duels and Drama

Everyone on Eyre enjoys a good fight, especially when that fight involves fire! If the players choose to entertain in a different way, by challenging someone to a duel or by putting on a show with swords and/or magic, then have them roll a Performance (Strength or Arcana) check. On an 18+, the crowd is extremely impressed with the show (or they win their duel) and the players gain a +2 bonus to Persuasion checks while at the party. On a 12+, the show is pretty good (or the duel ends in a draw), but not everyone seems to be paying attention, so the party gains only a +1 bonus.

If the party doesn’t choose to start a duel, and they need the bonus, then have Azhalar’s salamander general challenge a party member to a duel.

`encounter: 1: Salamander`

##### Snack Sampling

Characters who investigate any of the tavern tables laden with snacks find an array of magic-infused dishes. Roll or choose an option from the Snacks table to see what’s available at any given table. All these dishes include magical ingredients meant to give the dishes a little extra flair. The first time a creature samples any of these dishes, it must succeed on a DC 12 Charisma (Deception) check to avoid making an alarmed face, coughing loudly, or having another potentially embarrassing reaction.

`dice: [[4. Life of the Party#^party-snacks]]`

For every two snacks that are successfully eaten without failing a check (don't have to be sequential), the player gains a +1 bonus (up to a +3 bonus).

| d6  | Snack                                                                                              |
| --- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1   | Eel rolls with sticky rice, jalapeno-infused honey-ginger sauce, and wriggling eels                |
| 2   | Exploding cheese puffs that pop in the mouth with cheesy flavor and illusory fireworks             |
| 3   | Fire beetle paste, a scorchingly spicy dip limned in illusory flames, served with toasted crackers |
| 4   | Midnight mushroom caps with blinking, phosphorescent spots, stuffed with crumbled cheese           |
| 5   | Pickled black lotus root that turns the tongue of anyone who eats it purple                        |
| 6   | Fire-roasted vegetables that disappear into a puff of smoke when bitten                            |
^party-snacks

### Scene 2: The Challenge

After the other party goers are convinced, the party will want to report their success back to Phlain. At that point he’ll ask them to convince the current sultan, Azhalar, to take his challenge. This requires a DC 30 Persuasion check, so will almost certainly require several bonuses, but the players also gain a +1 bonus for every party goer who has been convinced already (a total of +6, which is basically advantage).

If the party succeeds on the check, then the sultan is convinced and takes on Phlain’s challenge. He sends in one of his dao who will fight on his behalf. The party will fight on Phlain’s behalf. If the party fails the check, the sultan can still decide to attack the party on his own (feeling insulted by the challenge), achieving a surprise round against them as he literally stabs them in the back.

`encounter: 1: Dao`

### Conclusion

If the party defeats the dao, then Azhalar is seen skulking silently away from the party (DC 15 Perception) as the excitement from the battle is wearing off (so no one else notices). If Phlain offered a reward (which should be no less than 100 gp and no more than 1000 gp) then he hands it over to the group, and also clips a [[Necklace of Fireballs]] around one of the players' neck. He then departs for the Palace.
