#adventure [[Rhaan (Thelanis)]] [[Destiny]]

> You descend upon a vista that's largely arboreal, but there are beautiful valleys, glittering lakes, and a vast mountain in addition to forests that stretch as far as the eye can see. It’s always night here, and a pale blue moon hanging in the sky radiates bright light, always seeming to hang just above you.
> A large tower occupies the center of the moon, built into the trunks of four vast trees, each one reflecting the influence of a particular season. The central tower is encircled by numerous spires, each of which having a vastly different appearance. The whole area is covered in a light dusting of snow that glitters on the ground, and beasts who are sleek and graceful, and have unusual colors and patterns, are grazing on the grass beneath.

When the party first lands, they're approached by an Autumn Eladrin named Pax, who has a voice like honey in warm tea. The party might remember them from Bystan’s stories, and they ask the party for help in a situation that has arisen at the Moonlit Vale.
 * In the distance, as they speak, the party sees a hooded figure with a large book chained to him - Destiny. If Pax is asked about him, they can give his name and suggest the party leave him to his machinations. Even though Astra can't see his face, they feel like they're being stared down by him.
 * On the way to the Palace of the Moon, Pax can explain that a Grand Revel has been called in honor of the ascension of a new Baron - Selene of the Winter Court. But rumors have spread around the courts, as they often do, about threats to the new Baron's life, and everyone is pointing fingers. If she were to be killed, the entire Vale might be thrown into chaos, but there are also larger forces at work (such as those of Destiny himself).

[[9. The Grand Revel at Moonlit Vale]]

Archfey are each telling stories (over and over again), with them fulfilling the archetype. For example, the Lady in Shadow is the old witch in the woods. “In stories the Queen of Dusk will provide boons to heroes, but they always have a terrible price.” This is much like the poisoned apple story from Sleeping Beauty. Another archfey may be the Prince Charming character, who’s jumping from story to story playing a similar character (basically a rake, or maybe something more sinister like an abuser).

This is the domain of Destiny, the bearer of the Book of Destiny, who directs all of the stories that happen here to their required outcome. If a story goes off the rails, Destiny simply appears and resets the story. If anyone were to anger Destiny, they might find their stories reset randomly just for fun.

### The Moonlit Vale

The Moonlit Vale is essentially a country, with the feyspires spread across it as cities; it’s possible to spend days traveling from spire to spire. While it’s largely arboreal, there are beautiful valleys, glittering lakes, and a vast mountain. It’s always night here, and the moon Rhaan radiates bright light, always seeming to hang just above the viewer. While the moon doesn’t move or change, the seasons do; in winter, the court is covered in snow, while in spring, it’s in brilliant flower. This has nothing to do with the passage of time, and everything to do with the intrigues of the Palace of the Moon; the current season indicates which seasonal court is currently dominant. This is a crucial aspect of the Moonlit Vale: things change. The baronies are fixed in their stories, but the intrigues of the four seasons are the story Thelanis tells itself.

The Moonlit Vale embodies the general idea of the fey — otherworldy beauty and magic. There are many natural displays of illusion — streams of glowing mist, ethereal music, distant song. Motes of light drift slowly through the trees. The beasts of the region are sleek and graceful, and have unusual colors and patterns; while many use standard stat blocks, sentient beasts might use the statistics for Valenar beasts. The land is fertile, game is easy to hunt, and adventurers have advantage on foraging checks... though hunting without permission may incur the wrath of the local fey.

The feyspires are the cities of the Moonlit Vale. Each is home to a single archfey whose personal story is reflected by the spire, along with a few greater fey and a host of eladrin and other mortals. The grandest city in the Moonlit Vale is the Palace of the Moon.

#### Pylas Pyrial
>You come upon a glittering tower of alabaster and gold, where a large sun hangs in the sky and warms the surrounding lands. Gnomes and Summer Eladrin mingle casually, and the sounds of music and poetry fill the streets.

Pylas Pyrial is the Gate of Joy, celebrated for its bards and revels. Tied to Zilargo, it has a significant gnome population. It's allied with the summer fey of the Moon Court, and is ruled over by an archfey known as Shan Pyrial.

#### Shae Joridal
>You come upon a grand emerald spire, impressively tall, and surrounded at the top by three orbiting spheres that glow with emerald light. Goblinoids and Autumn Eladrin roam the streets in what appears to be an uneasy peace at best.

Shae Joridal is the City of Emerald Lights; its illusionists are legendary. It appears in what is now Darguun. It's allied with the autumn fey of the Moon Court, and is ruled over by an archfey known as Shan Jora (or the Grim Poet).

#### Shae Loralyndar
>You come upon an arboreal spire within a dense forest, where peak-roofed houses are connected by slender bridges, with beautiful rose gardens spreading between them. Autumn Eladrin and humanoid druids can be seen working together here.

Shae Loralyndar is the City of Rose and Thorn, an arboreal spire frequently found in the Twilight Demesne of the Eldeen Reaches. Many Greensingers have close ties to this city. It's allied with the spring fey of the Moon Court, and it's ruled over by an archfey known as Shan Lora.

#### Shae Tirias Tolai
>You come upon a gothic citadel that blends beauty and luxury with morbid reminders of death. The spire itself and city around it were built using bones as its base, blended with marble and silver, and with pools of fresh blood in place of fountains. Glamerweave tapestries display the tales of forgotten heroes, but the cloth is torn and tattered. The sounds of battle can still be heard as echoes, as there's no one else here to make other sounds.

Shae Tirias Tolai is the City of Silver and Bone. Tied to Xen’drik, it was sacked by the giants of the Cul’sir Dominion and never reclaimed; some believe the elves of Eberron are descended from the eladrin of Shae Tirias Tolai. Today, it’s a haunted ruin, shunned by the fey.

#### Shaelas Tiraleth
>You come upon a golden geometric spire, more opulent and ornate than any other structure on the moon, with a huge silver tree in front of it. Humans and elves wearing brightly-colored glamerweave clothing wander peacefully through the streets. There's music in the air and lights in the sky.

Shaelas Tiraleth is the Court of the Silver Tree, largest of the feyspires. Its ruler, Shan Tira (or the Lady of the Silver Tree), is a master diviner and gifted oracle. All archfey respect her words, and she serves as a mediator between the seasons of the Moon Court. The spire is tied to Cyre, and there are stories that suggest the first Princess Cyre herself may have been a student of Shan Tira.

#### Taer Syraen
>You come upon slender towers of blue-white stone with delicate minarets sparkling in the light. Fragile bridges span the gaps between, giving the place the appearance of a crystalline web formed from ice. A steep ice wall surrounds the spire, protected by helmeted guards, their faces hidden behind grim visors, watching for enemies and intruders alike.

Taer Syraen is the Winter Citadel, seat of the Prince of Frost. This martial spire appears in a barren region of Karrnath. It’s closely allied with the winter fey of the Moon Court.

`encounter: 1: Prince of Frost`

### The Endless Weald (The Forest Queen)

[[The Forest Queen]] rules the Endless Weald within Thelanis, an arboreal realm inhabited by dire beasts and wild fey. The Weald often leaks into the wood through manifest zones found in deep forests; in such places, dryads lurk in the trees and beasts may possess unusual cunning

When the players enter the Endless Weald, there’s a split in the path with a sign between the two, which reads:

> “The Endless Weald, realm of The Forest Queen. Follow the rules or face me directly. 1) Never kill a natural beast for sport. 2) No weapons or armor of metal. 3) Remain on the marked path, and do no harm to the forest with your actions. 4) Help any fey of the forest who comes to you in need.

If the players choose to go left, they arrive at The Forest Queen’s Hut (Scene 1). If they choose to go right, they end up at the Sleeping Prince’s meadow (Scene 2). If the players exit the marked path at any time, see The Forest Queen’s Rebuke.

##### Scene 1: The Forest Queen’s Hut

If the players arrive having broken any of the rules, the Forest Queen will chastise them and force them out of the forest (see The Forest Queen’s Rebuke). If they follow the rules, she tells them the story about how the rules came about.

> Uncountable years ago, the “civilized” people of the feyspires would ravage the wood and hunt the animals without remorse, so much so that the magical animals and plants were becoming endangered. So I approached the King of the nearest feyspire, who would often hunt in the woods, and begged him for help, presenting my first rule - “Never kill a natural beast for sport”. But he rebuked me, and struck me with his metal sword, breaking the skin. As my blood pooled on the forest floor, I wept, and the King walked away laughing.

> Some time later, word spread across the realm that the King was expecting his first born. There was much rejoicing, and the entire realm was invited to the spire to celebrate. I donned my finest robes and made my way to the feyspire to give my well-wishes. But the King recognized me, calling me a “witch in ragged robes” and rebuked me again, forcing me from the spire. As I left, I lifted a finger and muttered a curse - “If you or your child ever set foot in my forest realm, you will be struck down”. Little did I know at the time, that another Fey heard this, and attempted to reverse my curse. However, she could only do so partially. Instead of dying, the child would fall into a deep sleep for 100 years to be awakened only by true love’s kiss.

> The King’s child grew into a young prince, and while the King made it clear that entering the Endless Weald was strictly forbidden, one day he made the trip anyway. I felt his presence in my wood, and went to investigate, but by time I got there, it was too late. One of my beautiful deer had been slain, and the prince was there with blood on his metal sword. I remembered my promise all too well, and immediately cast a spell to strike him dead. But another strange magic interfered, and the prince fell to the ground, but only into a deep unending sleep. I returned to my hut, feeling safe in my realm once again. The next day I returned to put up the rules, and they have been strictly enforced ever since.

The Forest Queen can answer any questions the party have about the story, but she only knows her side of it. She can direct the party to the Sleeping Prince’s Meadow location. A DC 12 Perception check will reveal the physical storybook on a pedestal behind the witch. A successful DC 15 Sleight of Hand check could be used to “re-write” any part of the story so things go differently next time they’re rebuked. If they can prevent the prince from breaking the rules (maybe by not entering the wood at all), then the Forest Queen will be happy (see Conclusion).

##### Scene 2: The Sleeping Prince’s Meadow

When the players arrive in the open meadow, they can clearly see a stone slab surrounded by flowers with a young man asleep atop it. Next to him, another young man kneels, head bowed, with a stone axe on the ground next to him. The young man is the Woodsman, and he can present the Prince’s side of the story.

> The prince once told me a story about a witch who appeared at his celebration of life and cursed him. He never really knew why, and I got the feeling he wouldn’t have told me the story even if he did know it. But he grew into a young prince, and while his father the King taught him to hunt, he never allowed him to step foot into the Endless Weald, stating that it was strictly forbidden. We were friends at the time, and would talk about hunting techniques and other things boys discuss. And I would tell him about the magical beauty of the Endless Weald. Why did I have to fill his mind with such stories?

The Woodman pauses for a moment before continuing.

> Inevitably, the King had to go away on business, and children will be children. So the prince took the opportunity to sneak away from the spire and explore the long-forbidden wood in the distance. Little did he know that I followed him without him knowing. I needed to protect him, like I had done since we were little kids.

> The moment he stepped into the woods, he was completely enthralled by the verdant beauty, and the magically sparkling fauna. But he was always easily startled, and when a deer ran up on him unexpectedly, he reacted without thinking, turned around, and felled it with his sword. He was immediately distraught and fell to his knees, but it was too late. I ran toward him, but couldn’t get there fast enough. And just as I saw what I swore to be a witch in my peripheral vision, Prince Aurum fell to the ground and entered a deep slumber. I looked around for the witch, but never found her. I did find this meadow though, so I lifted the prince’s body, moved him here, and placed him on these rocks. I check back on him almost daily even now, but he was never stirred.

The Woodsman cares deeply for the Prince, and the party can even pick up hints that he loves him with a successful DC 15 Perception or a spell such as *Detect Thoughts*.

If the players have heard the witch’s side of the story, they may try to convince The Woodsman to attempt true love’s kiss to wake up Prince Aurum. This will work, but if done inside of the Endless Weald, the Forest Queen will appear, and rebuke them (see The Forest Queen’s Rebuke). One solution could be to move the prince’s body outside of the Weald, even back to the feyspire, and wake him there (see Conclusion). 

##### Scene 3: The Forest Queen’s Rebuke

If the players anger the witch, either by failing to follow her rules or not following her story as she prefers, she appears (out of nowhere, in a puff of leaves, if she’s not already there) and forces them out of the Endless Weald. The party finds themselves on the edge of the wood, and can re-enter where they will be at the fork in the path with the rules sign. Any NPCs encountered won’t recall any previous conversations though - it’s as if the day reset ala Groundhog Day.

##### Conclusion

The Forest Queen just wants her rules followed in her story. If the party can come up with a way to make that happen, she’ll be happy, and will reward them with a [[Wand of Sleep]]

If the party manages to wake Prince Aurum without the Forest Queen’s rebuke, either the Woodsman (if done outside of the wood) or the King (if done at the Feyspire) will reward them with a [[Cloak of Elvenkind]]

### Folly (The Trickster Cat / Puss in Boots)

Location of the Trickster Cat (aka [[Fortune’s Fool]]) and where the story of Puss in Boots is re-lived by the players.

Folly is the barony of Fortune’s Fool. Here, great misfortunes regularly occur, but invariably lead to unlikely success. In this layer, d20 rolls of 5 or below are always considered a 1, and rolls of 16 or above are always considered a 20. Folly contains a charming village and a number of threats— a dragon, a giant— that can’t be defeated with weapons alone. However, skill checks can be used to achieve things that might seem impossible in reality. For example, each Persuasion or Deception check could be used to convince the dragon to eat its own hoard, with each successful check reducing its hit points until it bursts. This is a place where wits are more important than brawn, though it may take time for the adventurers to discover this.

##### Scene 1: The First Eight Lives

As the players approach Folly, they see 8 crystals arranged in a semi-circle around the front of the castle, each of which having a number below it. The castle door is magically sealed and cannot be opened by any physical or magical means by the players.

If anyone focuses on a crystal, then they see the Trickster Cat in the appropriately numbered scenario below. If they touch or interact with the crystal in any way, they're pulled in to the life memory and can affect the result. If the players manage to save the Trickster Cat from losing his life, then they're ejected from the crystal and it cracks. If they don't save the Trickster Cat, then they're still ejected from the crystal, but it doesn't crack, so they can re-enter if they choose. Once the last scenario (obtaining the castle) has been experienced, whether the players experienced the others or managed to save any of the Trickster Cat's lives, then the castle door unlocks and opens.

1) Obtaining boots - gets killed when found stealing them by the cobbler? Or he could save the cobbler from danger (dying the first time) and get the boots as a reward.
2) Brings gifts to the king - gets killed by guards?
3) Golden Eggs from Mother Goose?
4) A run-in with Reynard the Fox? Reynard is depicted as a cunning fox who has engaged in so many criminal deeds that the King wants to bring him to justice. He sends out one animal at the time to arrest Reynard and bring him to court, but all attempts go horribly wrong.
5) A run-in with the Dread Wolf (also Reynard's foil)? The Wolf should use Puss in some way to get to both Reynard and Brer, then kill him anyway. Puss will have to outsmart him in some way, probably by playing to his overconfidence.
6) A run-in with Brer Rabbit? Brer Rabbit creates a wooden doll and covers it over with gum, in an effort to catch a fairy. But Puss comes along first, sees the doll, tries to speak with it, and gets angry when it doesn't respond. So he strikes it and gets stuck inside, and struggling to escape just makes it worse. He's unable to get out, and eventually dies stuck in the gum. On the second try, Puss just waves at the statue and walks by, then we watch as a small fairy flies up and gets stuck.
7) Anansi the spider?
8) Puss approaches a castle owned by an ogre. Says he's heard that the ogre can turn into any animal. The ogre says yes, and turns into a lion - but Puss isn't impressed so the ogre eats him. On the second try, Puss quickly acts shocked and impressed after the ogre turns into a lion. Then he says that if he could turn into the smallest possible animal, he would be even more impressed. So the ogre turns into a mouse, and Puss promptly eats him, and takes over the castle.

##### Scene 2: The Last Wish

If the players don't manage to save enough (or any) of the Trickster Cat's lives, then he could ask the players' help with a contingency plan. An adventure where the Trickster Cat goes to get his wish granted to get his lives back (quest to some place like Star Hill from Mario RPG).

### Castle of Forgotten Things (The Forgotten Prince / Little Mermaid)

Barony of [[The Forgotten Prince]].

The party is hired by a wealthy merchant to retrieve a valuable painting that was stolen by the Forgotten Prince. When they arrive at the castle, they discover that the painting is a portrait of the Prince's past, a scene of the Prince passed out on the beach being embraced by a beautiful princess. The party may decide to return the painting to the merchant or help the Prince reunite with his lost past.

[[9. The Prince Forgotten]]

### The Assembly (Adara's Prison / Cinderella?)

Barony of the [[The Mother of Invention]], also known as the Forge Maiden. Here, innovation is celebrated, and any artificer spell cast in this layer is treated as if it were cast at a level one higher than the spell slot that was expended. But while there are a few stories of how things go well, there are many where inventions go terribly wrong: the construct dragon that has claimed the workshop and gathered a hoard; the labyrinth the Maiden designed so well that she became lost in it; the time stop spell that can’t be undone. Wondrous (and impossible) artifacts can be found here, but so can many dangers.

There's a small prison here that held Adara back when she was on Thelanis.

### The Shadow (The Shadow by HCA)

Barony of [[The Lady in Shadow]]. The secret garden of the Lady is walled and protected by dangerous plant creatures, but holds imaginary flowers that an alchemist could use to do amazing things. The Lady’s tower is hidden within a maze of thorns, which also leads to the Garden of Forking Ways (as all mazes on Rhaan do).

Do something with Onme's chosen fairy tale of The Shadow by Hans Christian Andersen.

##### Secret Garden Maze (DC 13)
* **Victory Condition**: 4 Right Path Cards or Kill a Monster
* [[Mazes Using Cards]]

| d6  | Trap Effect                                                                                                                                |
| --- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1-2 | **Wall of Thorns**: When this card is removed from the river, replace it with a Dead End card from outside of the game.               |
| 3-4 | **Poison Dart**: Each player makes a (Maze DC + 2) DEX save. Failing players take 1d12 poison damage.                                 |
| 5   | **Sleep Pollen**: The current player falls asleep, skipping their next two turns. As an Action, another PC can wake the player early. |
| 6   | Walls open up, leading to the Garden of Forking Ways (see below)                                                                      |

| d6  | Monster Encounter                                                                                     |
| --- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1-3 | `encounter: 1d3: Assassin Vine` (flavored as thorny vines, with piercing damage instead of bludgeoning) |
| 4-6 | `encounter: 1d3: Aartuk Elder`                                                                          |

### Fields of Fable (The White Rabbit / Red Casino / Alice in Wonderland)

Barony of [[The Harvest Monarch]].

The Harvest Monarch is tied to the land they govern. When their people suffer, they’re sickly. In prosperous times, they’re strong and vital. Sometimes they’re deposed and forced to walk their land in hiding; during these times, they’re known as the Long Wanderer or the Exile. But they’re the rightful ruler and are always restored, and those who aid them are rewarded.

We'll pigeonhole the [[9. White Rabbit]] adventure here, as there's no better place to put it. So it probably won't really play into The Harvest Monarch at all.

### Garden of Forking Ways (Destiny's Home)

The Garden of Forking Ways is Destiny's realm. He continually walks its maze-like paths, his Book forever chained to his wrist. The garden has many forking paths, and it can be entered through any maze or labyrinth. Another prominent feature of the garden is a set of giant statues of the Endless, which change to reflect their prototypes' current state.

Destiny's residence is within the garden, and the Endless will meet there when they converge as a family, almost without exception. His Gallery is a stone hallway with painted portraits of the Endless on the wall.

If the players were to engage Destiny in conversation, he is very cagey and cryptic, giving as little information as possible.

>The Garden of Destiny.... Some have wandered it until they've died. You are persistent, I will give you that.

>Sometimes you dream about the paths of destiny, and speculate, to no purpose... Dream about the paths you take, and the paths you didn't take.

>“Never trust the storyteller. Only trust the story.”

##### Garden of Forking Ways Maze (DC 15)
* **Victory Condition**: 5 Right Path Cards
* [[Mazes Using Cards]]

| d6  | Trap Effect                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| --- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1-2 | **Statue of the Endless**: When this card is removed from the river, replace it with a Dead End card from outside of the game. A huge statue of a random Endless totally blocks the path. `dice: [[9. Rhaan, the Book#^random-endless]]`                                                                                                                                                                               |
| 3-4 | **Forced to Choose**: Each player makes a (Maze DC + 2) WIS save. Failing players are unable to use Actions on their next turn, and hear Destiny's voice in their heads: *"Walk any path in Destiny's garden, and you will be forced to choose, not once but many times. The paths fork and divide. With each step you take through Destiny's garden, you make a choice; and every choice determines future paths..."* |
| 5-6 | **No Avoiding Destiny**: Add a Monster card from outside of the game to the discard pile.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |

**Monsters**
* Destiny appears, wags his finger and snaps, sending the PCs back to the entrance of the maze. Restart the maze by removing any points, shuffling cards, and re-dealing (but keeping the same card balance).

### Random Tables

| d6  | Endless     |
| --- | ----------- |
| 1   | Delirium    |
| 2   | Desire      |
| 3   | Despair     |
| 4   | Death       |
| 5   | Destruction |
| 6   | Dream       |
^random-endless

### References

* The Endless Weald is based on “The Sleeping Prince”: [https://keith-baker.com/ifaq-stories/](https://keith-baker.com/ifaq-stories/)
* Reynard the Fox: https://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/Literature/ReynardTheFox
* https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tar-Baby
* Shae Joridal: http://mephitjames.wikidot.com/shae-joridal
* Shae Loralyndar: https://kanka.io/en-US/campaign/6529/locations/71651
* Shae Tirias Tolai: https://keith-baker.com/silver-and-bone/
* Taer Syraen: https://kanka.io/en-US/campaign/6529/locations/51631
