#adventure 

### Background

This story follows the Prince of Forgotten Things' past, mostly from his perspective, but also from the eyes of the mermaid's sisters (who the players embody). Unbeknownst to him, this point in the Prince's life has been shaped by a monstrous Kraken Priest named Ursula - who has disguised herself as the Princess Vanessa who he thinks rescued him from drowning.

In the past, Ursula was a resident of King Triton's palace, before being banished and exiled by order of the king. Scorned, she has since vowed to exact vengeance by sowing general chaos and scheming to install herself as ruler of all the ocean.

The Little Mermaid (both the original Hans Christian Andersen and the Disney retelling) is Alex's favorite fairy tale.

### Hook(s)

* The party is hired by a wealthy merchant to retrieve a valuable painting that was stolen by the Forgotten Prince. When they arrive at the castle, they discover that the painting is a portrait of the Prince's past, a scene of the Prince passed out on the beach being embraced by a beautiful princess. The party may decide to return the painting to the merchant or help the Prince reunite with his lost past.

### Synopsis

- When anyone in the party initially touches the painting, they are all transported to the story of the Prince's past, to the point where he's celebrating his birthday on his ship. Suddenly a storm breaks out, and lightning strikes the ship, throwing the Prince overboard.
- The Prince opens his eyes right as a princess has discovered him laying on the shore, so he mistakenly thinks that she rescued him. From another perspective on the story, Ariel looks on from behind a rock.
- We flash forward to the day that the Prince found Ariel washed up on the castle steps. Then forward again to the Prince speaking to Ariel about sailing to a neighboring kingdom in order to meet a princess that his parents have arranged marriage to. When he arrives, he sees that the princess is the same one that supposedly saved his life, and decides to go forward with the marriage after all.
- The Prince marries Princess Vanessa, who then sneaks away in the night, leaving him alone. Princess Vanessa was actually Ursula in disguise, who sought only to sow chaos and increase her power by keeping the Prince away from the seas.
- The players may choose to interfere with the story and change the outcome in some way so that the Prince ends up with Ariel (or some other desired result).

### Scene 1: The Castle of Forgotten Things

>This tall stone tower is scattered with random objects, seemingly from all over the planes. As you ascend multiple stone staircases you look around and see piles of trinkets, sacks of various goods, and all manner of other things either forgotten or unappreciated. When you crest the final staircase, your eyes land on a large painting depicting a young man passed out on a beach being embraced by a beautiful princess. A sullen, broken-looking man sits slumped on the floor next to the painting.

When the players arrive at the Castle of Forgotten things, the Prince is there, essentially a broken man surrounded by his things. He will not fight them for the painting (but will discourage them from taking it, as all he has is his things), which they see leaning against a wall, depicting the Prince passed out on the beach being embraced by a beautiful princess. When the players touch the painting (which can glow and/or reach out to Astra telepathically if needed), they are drawn into the story, from the Prince's perspective.

>"I once knew someone who collected gadgets and gizmos and thingamabobs, and I suppose I have taken on that same mantle in my advanced years. After everything I've lost, it gives my life some semblance of... meaning."

### Scene 2: The Prince's Past

Based on the Hans Christian Andersen version of the story, and told only as a flashback of what happened in the Prince's life, from his perspective.

The players see the Prince celebrating what appears to be a birthday on a large wooden ship, with colorful fireworks exploding in the sky, and music in the air. Suddenly a storm breaks out, and lightning strikes the ship, throwing the Prince overboard. He thinks he sees the outline of a creature in the storm, but everything goes black.

When the Prince opens his eyes again, a princess is standing over him (Vanessa, who is actually Ursula in disguise), and he assumes that she rescued him. But he is returned to the care of his court, and Princess Vanessa departs.

We flash forward to the day that the Prince found a woman, who is unable to speak, washed up on the castle steps. Then we get a montage of the prince and the woman spending time together, collecting things, acting as brother and sister. We move forward again to the Prince speaking to the woman about sailing to a neighboring kingdom in order to meet a Princess that his parents have arranged marriage to, but who he doesn't want to marry. When he arrives, he sees that the Princess is the same one that supposedly saved his life, and decides to go forward with the marriage after all.

Next we see a marriage celebration on the Prince's ship, where he notices the woman has gone missing and wonders where she has gone. He falls asleep with the Princess Vanessa, but when he awakes, the princess is gone. He finds only several trails of.... slime?.... on the ship's deck. Fade to black.

At this point the players are back in the castle with the Prince. They can ask any questions they'd like, but the painting will start glowing brightly immediately. It can also reach out to Astra telepathically, pleading him to "change the story". Information the Prince can impart:
* The only clue he ever found to Princess Vanessa's disappearance was eight trails of slime on the ship's deck, leading off the edge. His deck hands cleaned it up the next day, thinking it unimportant.
* He never saw the woman again either, and was left with so many unanswered questions about this woman who was unable to speak.

### Scene 3: The Mermaids

Based on a mix of the Hans Christian Andersen and Disney versions of the story, from the perspective of Ariel's sisters. The party, who play as the sisters, have the opportunity to change the Prince's story so he ends up with Ariel, leading to a more Disney outcome.
* Sister names: Aquata, Andrina, Arista, Attina, Adella, Alana, and of course Ariel (who they can't be).

Touching the painting again returns the players to the Prince's past, to the point where he's celebrating his birthday on his ship. This time the players are the mermaid sisters of a mermaid named Ariel who has come to the surface and is observing the Prince on his ship, who she has grown quite infatuated with. Suddenly a storm breaks out, and lightning strikes the ship, sending the Prince overboard.
* DC 12 Perception check to see what is unmistakably the outline of a kraken in the storm.

Ariel quickly swims out to save him before the sisters are able to react, dragging him to the shore. They watch as she kisses him just before he opens his eyes, and is forced to swim off as people approach from a nearby temple.
> "I would do anything to see your darling eyes open once more."

The Prince opens his eyes right as a princess has discovered him laying on the shore, so he mistakenly thinks that she rescued him. The party watches as Ariel looks on from behind a rock.
>"No! I saved your life! It was me!"
>"Well, I got my wish. He opened his eyes again."

The next scene occurs back under the water, as Ariel and her sisters recap the events of the day. Call for a History check, with the highest result revealing that player recognizes the banners on the ship and can direct Ariel to the Prince's castle. The next morning, Ariel has gone missing, and the players can talk to their grandmother who says that she was talking to Ariel last night about how she could never marry a man from above the water because she doesn't have legs. One of the sisters (whoever has the highest History check) would immediately remember about the sea witch Ursula who lives in the depths of the ocean who would be the only one powerful enough to help Ariel get back to the Prince.

If the players decide to go to Ursula's den, they see her singing to Ariel about "poor unfortunate souls" and how she helps them, and that she can help her as well. She offers a potion that will turn Ariel into a human for three days in exchange for her voice, but warns that she must get a true love's kiss from the Prince prior to the sun setting on the third day or she will revert to a mermaid and be bound to Ursula forever. She captures Ariel's voice in a spiral shell and gives her the potion.

If the players approach and speak to her, then Ursula may offer a new deal to the sisters who can trade their hair for a special knife that will allow Ariel to kill the Prince - and if she does so, she will regain her tail and return to the sea.
* Call for a DC 14 Insight check, in order to reveal Ursula's chaotic nature, and that she manipulated Ariel when she made the initial deal.
* Even if the players take this route, Ariel is unable to kill the Prince, whom she loves (unless somehow convinced otherwise). She dives back into the sea with her sisters where she dissolves into sea foam.

At this point the players can decide how they want the story to advance and what they want to change. Do they come up with a clever way to intervene between Ariel and the Prince to bring things together, or do they let things play out? Regardless of the players' actions, the below things may happen:
* In one days' time after meeting Ariel, the Prince will start his journey to the neighboring kingdom on his ship, and Ariel will accompany him.
* The Prince will meet Princess Vanessa and decide to marry her, returning to his castle with her (taking another day to get back). If the players see Princess Vanessa, they can see she wears the shell with Ariel's voice around her neck (whoever has the highest Perception check).
* There will be one day of wedding ship preparation before the wedding takes place. The wedding happens on the evening of the third day of Ursula's deal.
* After the wedding party, the Prince and Princess fall asleep. The players can see the Princess return to her true Ursula form as she slips off the ship in the night.
* At the conclusion of these events, everything fades to black and the party finds themselves back in the Castle.

### Conclusion

If the PCs decide to change things so the Prince ends up with Ariel, then she will be there in the Castle with him (which looks significantly less dreary and unhappy, but still scattered with trinkets) and the painting will be hanging on the wall depicting Prince Eric (as he's now known) and Ariel instead. If events aren't changed, then everything looks the same and the painting is still glowing - the players can return to the story as many times as they like by touching it (at which point they'll restart Scene 3).

If at any point the party decides to fight Ursula, use the Kraken Priest stat block, with the following changes:
* Can cast *polymorph* at will
* Double hit points to 150 (which should put the CR closer to 7)
If Ursula were to manage to obtain King Triton's trident, then she would be transformed into a full Kraken (CR 23), making outright combat nearly impossible (although she'd only get her Lair Actions if she could draw them back to her den lair under the sea). This would only happen if the players decide to ignore her and anger the sea somehow - doesn't seem worth pursuing otherwise.

`encounter: 1: Kraken Priest`

### References

* https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Little_Mermaid
* https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Little_Mermaid_(1989_film)
* https://disney.fandom.com/wiki/Ursula
* https://www.dndbeyond.com/monsters/2560858-kraken-priest
* https://www.dndbeyond.com/monsters/16940-kraken
