#adventure [[Rhaan (Thelanis)]] [[Selene de Rhaan]] [[Ihan de Rhaan]] [[Phoebe de Rhaan]] [[Esmeray]] [[Mahsa]]

### Background

[[9. Rhaan, the Book]]

Baron Selene de Rhaan is the newest ruler of the Moonlit Vale from the Winter Eladrin, but is already under threat from an unknown assassin. If she died, all of the Vale would be thrown into chaos. The primary suspects are her cousins Grand Duke Ihan de Rhaan and Grand Duchess Phoebe de Rhaan (of the Summer Court) or her former lover, Ambassador Esmeray (of the Spring Court).

The largest palace on the plane, the Moonlit Vale, is a constant exercise in palace intrigue. At the apex of each season, the fey of the ruling season host a grand revel, which draws archfey from all throughout the plane; this is a moment when intrigues bloom and stories are shaped, a time for duels and grand declarations. Destiny has little interest in directing the events here, save for the progression of rulership that must be maintained - from Autumn to Summer to Spring to Winter - any other order is unacceptable (so Selene's usurping of the Barony from the Summer Court is against Destiny's plan).

Court Approval will be tracked throughout this adventure, using a Threat Pool. When something is done that would lower Court Approval (such as insulting a noble), or the party spends too much time away from the grand revel (add 1d6 for every ten minutes game time, so full round of actions per player), then add a die to the pool. When something is done that would increase Court Approval (such as dancing with a noble for information, playing “the game”, etc.) then remove one die from the pool. When the pool is full with six dice, then an appropriate encounter happens - usually this is guards (use the Conclave Dryad stat block) appearing to escort the party back to the ballroom, but it may be something else depending on the situation.

`encounter: 2: Conclave Dryad`

### Hook(s)

Liege Pax (of the Autumn Court) should serve as a guide for the players, and inform them of the rumors of danger to Baron Selene’s life (and the impact that would have). The party should run in to them shortly after they land on the moon. They have a voice like honey in warm tea, and the party might remember them from Bystan’s stories.

### Synopsis

- The first phase (Scene 1) of the adventure involves the party learning about the Palace of the Moon Court and the four Eladrin Courts, as well as following information:
    - That Duke Ihan suspects the Spring Court of interference with the evening’s proceedings.
    - That Baron Selene and Duke Ihan seem to have a standoff-ish relationship, and she doesn’t seem to trust him.
    - That a new arcane advisor from the Autumn Court has wriggled her way into Selene’s Court, and Pax doesn’t seem to trust her.
- The second phase (Scenes 2 through 3) involves exploring the Palace (via the Moon Pool elevator, by finding the missing gems) and gathering information on each of these factions. By the end of the phase, the following information should be clear (which should cause even more confusion about who to trust):
    - Selene clearly trusts “Lady M” (Mahsa), but expects “her cousin” (the Duke or Duchess) to employ force against her.
    - Servants have been disappearing from the Servants’ Wing, and someone is asking for Esmeray’s help.
    - Duke Ihan doesn’t trust Esmeray and has warned Selene against her. Also Esmeray and Selene had some sort of previous relationship.
- The next phase begins when the party re-enters the ballroom (Scene 4) and meets Mahsa. She warns them against Duke Ihan and the Summer Court, saying that she killed (only after he attacked her) one of his agents she found snooping around the Autumn Tree. She then gives them a gem she found on the body, which opens up the Spring Tree (and Servants’ Wing), where they find the dead servants and meet Esmeray (Scene 5). They then return to the ballroom (Scene 6) where they have the opportunity to dance with Phoebe and learn that she doesn’t trust her brother either, that an attack is likely to come soon, and they should visit the Guest Wing of the Winter Tree.
    - At this point all evidence seems to be pointing to the Summer Court. But if the players were to speak to Ihan himself, who is available at any time in the ballroom, they would learn quickly that he doesn’t even want the job. He’d rather retire and live with the gnomes (at Pylas Pyrial, the Gate of Joy). He would also deny any of the actions that have been attributed to his agents (which is true, as he’s being framed).
- The last phase starts with a visit to the Winter Tree, where they find a servant being attacked by an Autumn Eladrin (Scene 7). They then discover Mahsa herself opening a teleportation circle, so she monologues evilly for a bit (about the coming Prince of Frost), calls forth some monsters as a distraction, and steps through. When the party returns to the ballroom for the final time, they can either save Selene or let her be killed, but either way Mahsa will get away (Scene 8). The final fight with her happens in the garden, and afterward the party can help determine the fate of the Palace Court (Scene 9 and Conclusion).

### Scene 1: Palace of the Moon (Purple)

> The towers of a great Palace are built into the trunks of four vast trees, each one reflecting the influence of a particular season. The Summer Tree is in full bloom, while the Winter Tree is withered and bare, the Autumn Tree has lost the majority of its leaves, while the Spring Tree is just growing them back. A light snow is just starting the pepper the ground as you see a steady stream of people entering the Palace’s main archway.

##### Vestibule

Upon the party’s arrival at the Palace of the Moon, they are greeted by Grand Duke Ihan (mostly directed at Pax) at the exterior entrance. Ihan informs Pax that he believes Esmeray intends to disrupt the evening’s proceedings - his people have found these “ambassadors” from the Spring Court all over the Palace, and they’re not above sabotage.

Duke Ihan continues into the ballroom, but the party is stopped by Pax, who warns them about court intrigue (take this opportunity to explain the threat pool mechanic as well) before they all get inside:

> I must warn you before you go inside: how you speak to the court is a matter of life and death. It is no simple matter of etiquette and protocol. Every word, every gesture is measured and evaluated for weakness. Be careful.

##### Ballroom

Upon entering the ballroom, the party members are introduced by an announcer:

> And now presenting: Grand Duke Ihan de Rhaan. And accompanying him: Lady Adara of Bral, Astrashana of Adar, Knight Captain Onme Nanvia Donverou of Thrane, Prism the Forged of Dal Quor, and Sir Windsor Stone of Aundair.

They are led across the ballroom by Duke Ihan to Baron Selene on the other end. After they arrive, the Grand Duke introduces the Grand Duchess Phoebe de Rhaan and the Baron Selene:

> **Duke**: Cousin. My dear sister.
> **Baron**: Grand Duke. We are always honored when your presence graces our court.
> **Duke**: Don’t waste my time with pleasantries, Selene. We have business to conclude.
> **Baron**: We will meet for the negotiations after we have seen to our other guests.

The Duke bows and departs, and the Baron addresses the party:

> Friends, we welcome you to the Palace of the Moon. Allow us to present our cousin, the Grand Duchess Phoebe of the Summer Court, without whom this gathering would never have been possible. Your arrival at court is like a cool wind on a summer’s day.

The Duchess bows and departs, and space is left for the party to respond, if desired. Then the Baron continues:

> We have heard much of your exploits. They have made grand tales for long evenings. Now that you are here, we hope you will find time to take in some of the beauties of the Palace. Feel free to enjoy the pleasures of the ballroom, or use the Moon Pool behind me to explore the grounds. We look forward to watching you dance.

As you walk away from the Baron, Pax asks you to speak with her in private at your first opportunity.

The players can find Pax at a private table in the corner of the ballroom, or can ask her to go somewhere else to talk. She mentions that an occult advisor from her Autumn court, known as Mahsa, seems to have charmed the Empress and the entire Moon Court, while the party may mention (or Pax could say she overheard) that Duke Ihan is pointing fingers at Envoy Esmeray of the Spring Court.

All leads warrant investigating, and the other Trees surrounding the Palace will need to be explored in order to find evidence. Pax can explain who belongs to which Court, and where evidence for each might be found:
- Grand Library (Autumn Tree) for Mahsa (the arcane advisor)
- Hall of Heroes (Summer Tree) for Duke Ihan
- Guest Gardens (Spring Tree) for Esmeray

##### Moon Pool

A door at the back of the ballroom, behind the platform where Empress Selene stands, leads to the means of travel for the Moonlit Vale - the Moon Pool.

> As you enter this chamber, you are bathed in an almost blinding glow of moonlight beaming in from somewhere above. The floor and walls of the circular chamber are white marble streaked with iridescent grey and white. An elaborate lighting fixture hangs from the ceiling, which upon second glance you realize is a group of ornate mirrors suspended and angled to reflect moonlight and diffuse it throughout the room. Some of the mirrors also create a single shaft of focused moonlight, which forms a large circle on the wall opposite the door. There is a circular pool of water in the middle of the room, its surface still and clear as glass. Two 3-foot long levers just out of it. The first lever has a white handle, and the second lever has a black handle. As the last member of your party enters the room, the door swings shut of its own accord.

Wisdom (Perception) or Intelligence (Investigation) check:
- DC 12: Reveals that the circle of moonlight on the wall is roughly twice the size of the pool in the center of the room.
- DC 15: Reveals a set of small gemstones mounted in an arc above the door frame, from left to right: Purple, Blue, Green, Yellow, Orange.
- DC 17: Reveals the same set of gemstones on the side of the unit with the black lever (but with only the purple and orange in place).

The lever with the white handle only has two possible positions, all the way forward (away from the players) or all the way back. It is currently in the forward position. The lever with the black handle has five possible positions, forward to back, corresponding with the gemstones on the units exterior and above the door. This lever is currently in the forward position, next to the purple gemstone.

Any time a creature moves within this chamber (and the white lever is in the forward position), the wall begins to rotate, moving the door away from the ballroom exit. The doorway can be aligned to another exit hallway by aligning the black lever with a gemstone, which causes that gem and the corresponding one above the door to glow. The white lever must then be pulled back (toward the players) in order to lock the wall in place so the door can be accessed.

The room will only move when the circle of water is bathed in concentrated moonlight. In order to do so, the mirrors must be moved in a way that directs the beam from the wall into the pool. The mirrors can be moved with a successful DC 15 Strength (Athletics) check.

### Scene 2: Autumn Tree (Orange)

> You step off the elevator and into a grand hallway, lined with orange plaques bearing the symbol of a leaf. Closed doors line one side of the hallway while the other side opens to a grand library.

The previous Baron was from the Autumn Court, but recently died which started the process of Selene’s ascension. Some members, like Lady Mahsa, want to hold on to power and are doing so by attaching themselves to the Baron (as her occult advisor, in Mahsa’s case). While other members are more interested in the stability of the court moving forward and preserving their way of life, and are very concerned that Selene has gone against Destiny’s plan (such as Pax).

##### Grand Library

The library can be used to gather general information (+2 to History checks) about Thelanis, the Courts, or anything of interest to the party that they’ve learned about thus far. A DC 14 Investigation check will reveal a book partially sticking out of a shelf titled “The Prince of Frost” (which reveals that lore). Pulling the book out also opens a secret room, which contains a yellow gem.

Other books, should they continue looking through the shelves (for each new successful DC 14 Investigation check):
* **The Legend of Shae Doresh**: "Nearly every legend told of the eladrin makes mention of one of the mythic feyspires, the glorious cities of Thelanis, the Feywild. Yet of the seven fabled spires, few tales in the current age speak of Shae Doresh, the Spire of Dreams. When asked of its fate, the eladrin cast their eyes to the ground and grow reticent to speak of the deep past. Shae Doresh has been deemed lost to Thelanis and eladrin both, though whispers of the fey suggest it survives somewhere."
* **The History of Shae Tirias Tolai**: "Millennia ago, the feyspire of Shae Tirias Tolai crossed over from Thelanis to Xen’drik, where the giants used powerful magic to shatter its protective wards and destroy it. After the feyspire’s people were taken as slaves, the ruins of the site were quickly swallowed by the jungle. The former feyspire is now known as the City of Silver and Bone."
* **The Garden of Forking Ways**: "Walk any path in Destiny's garden, and you will be forced to choose, not once but many times. The paths fork and divide. With each step you take through Destiny's garden, you make a choice; and every choice determines future paths...The paths diverge and branch and reconnect; some say not even Destiny himself truly knows where any will take you, where each twist and turn will lead."
* If continued searching is desired, books about the various archfey and their domains could be found (six books in total).

##### Grand Apartments

One of the apartments belongs to Lady Mahsa. Investigating the room (DC 14) will reveal a letter on the desk:

> Lady M,
> I need you at my side tonight. The unpleasantness in the royal wing has convinced me there is no safety within the Palace. I do not expect my cousin to employ force, but I would hardly be surprised. I must rely entirely upon you. There is no one else I can trust.
> - Selene

Another apartment has a blood stain on the ground (DC 12 Investigation). This refers to the Summer Court agent that Lady Mahsa killed and will tell the party about in Scene 6.

### Scene 3: Summer Tree (Yellow)

> You step off the elevator and into a stoic hallway, lined with yellow plaques bearing the symbol of a sun. Closed doors line one side of the hallway while the other side opens to a museum-like room filled with busts.

Most of the Summer Court eladrin have very little interest in the court intrigue of the Palace, and prefer to reside at Pylas Pyrial with the gnomes, under the warmth of the only “sun”. This means that the members of Court who do reside in the Summer Tree generally don’t have a strong claim on the Barony. Duke Ihan, who should have been the next Baron, was secretly relieved when Selene usurped the throne, but would never tell that to his sister, who secretly supported Selene’s usurping (in order to get a better position in the Court but never to have to run it). So while the Summer Court are the current rightful heirs to the throne, and Destiny is unhappy with the situation, they will likely never claim it.

##### Hall of Heroes

This is a great hall lined with busts of various Eladrin, many in armor. On top of one of the plinths is a letter:

> The letter outlines four individuals who entered the servants' wing, and haven't been seen since, and closes with...
> Esmeray, we need immediate support down there. Something's gone wrong.

##### Soldiers’ Barracks

There are a number of small rooms here, clearly designed for soldiers. One much larger room can be found with a DC 15 Investigation check, along with a letter on the bed:

> Selene,
> We can discuss this like adults, can't we? We both know Esmeray’s machinations among the Spring Court intend to bring all of the other Courts down, not just you. She is now a greater threat to us than anything else, save for Destiny himself. If you and I work together, we can wrest control away from her. Do not deceive yourself that she will be open to negotiation or diplomacy. You know her better than anyone — you know that's impossible.
> - Ihan

### Scene 4: First Return to the Ballroom (Purple)

The party can use the Moon Pool to return to the ballroom, using the purple gemstone already present on the lever. When they arrive, they are approached by a new character - an Autumn eladrin who introduces herself as Lady Mahsa:

> Well, well, what have we here? The adventurers who arrive from the sky that the Court has been chattering so much about. I am Mahsa. Some call me advisor to Baron Selene on matters of the arcane. You… have been very busy this evening, hunting in every dark corner of the Palace. Perhaps you and I hunt the same… prey.

Give the players a chance to respond, and comment on it if they’re coy in any way.

> [Allow me to speak first then.] Recently I found, and killed, an unwelcome guest within these very walls. An agent of the Summer Court, in my courts halls. So I offer you this: a gem found on the agent’s body. Where it leads, I cannot say. Yet if Selene is in danger, I cannot leave her side long enough to search. You can.

Mahsa gives the players a green gem, which allows access to the Servents’ Wing in the Spring Tree.

### Scene 5: Spring Tree (Green)

> You step off the elevator into a simple hallway lined with green plaques bearing the symbol of a flower. Closed doors line one side of the hallway while the other side opens to a beautiful garden.

The Spring Court are one of the few mostly neutral parties at the Palace, being at least one cycle away from the throne, and therefore having less interest in the intrigue. For that reason, Destiny has asked them to set things right by taking out Baron Selene and moving the cycle along, which would make the Spring Court leader the next likely Baron. Envoy Esmeray, as a former (and jilted) lover of Baron Selene, was more than happy to take the lead on the job.

##### Guest Gardens

A beautiful garden extends out to a balcony where the vast majority of feyspires can be seen. Players receive a +2 bonus to Investigation or Perception checks to see anything about any area of the moon.

##### Servants’ Wing

Entering the Servants’ Wing reveals the presence of four dead gnomes on the ground - the very ones referenced in the letter to Esmeray. Advancing deeper into the wing reveals a Summer Court agent dead on the ground, with a green knife bearing a flower symbol in his back. As the party is investigating, a Spring Eladrin emerges from the shadows.

>Fancy meeting you here. We haven't been properly introduced, have we? I'm Envoy Esmeray of the Spring Court.

Esmeray says she came here to investigate the disappearance of her people (the servants). She now suspects that Ihan is planning to send agents to attack the Baron, after she found one of his agents here taking out her servants, and she killed him (maybe after getting part of the plan out of him).

If pressed, she could also communicate to the party that she has no intention of stopping Duke Ihan’s actions. She is working as an agent of Destiny, who needs Selene off the throne so the rightful rulers of the Summer Court can ascend. Plus, if Selene remains then all of Thelanis is in danger from the Prince of Frost. She’s guessing that Ihan has the same ends, and so she’s staying out of his way, and might even help. She just doesn’t want her servants killed in the process.

### Scene 6: Second Return to the Ballroom (Purple)

The party returns to the ballroom and are approached by Duchess Phoebe who asks one of them to the dance floor.

> [Name]. We met briefly. I am Grand Duchess Phoebe de Rhaan. Welcome to my party. I believe tonight you and I are both concerned with the actions of… a certain person. Come, dance with me, spies will not hear us on the dance floor.

Whichever party member agrees to dance should have a casual conversation with the Duchess as they dance. She should interject the line below at some point, and then close the dance with the full text block below. Cut to the other players periodically, who can be conversing with anyone else at the party that they like.

> **Phoebe**: Do you even yet know who is friend and who is foe? Who in the court can be trusted?

> It cannot have escaped your notice that certain parties are engaged in dangerous machinations tonight. You have little time. The attack will come soon. You must stop the Duke before he strikes. In the Guest Wing of the Winter Tree, you will find the captain of my brother’s mercenaries. He knows all of Ihan’s secrets. I’m sure you can persuade him to be forthcoming.

Phoebe will give whoever danced with her a blue gem that will allow them to get to the Winter Tree. Give the party a chance to consult with Pax to gather their information and discuss. Pax tells them that warning Selene will be useless - as she has too much invested in this gala and will never flee and admit defeat. She tells them that what the Vale needs is stability, and that may not necessarily come from Selene. The group may need to eventually decide who to support on the throne: Selene (Winter), Ihan (Summer), or Esmeray (Spring).

### Scene 7: Winter Tree (Blue)

> You step off the elevator and into a homey hallway, lined with blue plaques bearing the symbol of a snowflake. Closed doors line both sides of the hallway.

The Winter Court is the current head of the Palace of the Moon, with the recent ascension of Selene. Selene believes that the Winter Court are the rightful heirs to the throne, ever since the Prince of Frost left the Moonlit Vale. But how will the Prince react once he hears that there’s essentially a new Queen of Winter? Is anyone safe if he returns to the Vale?

##### Guest Wing

When the players explore the Guest Wing of the Winter Tree, they find a gnome servant being attacked by an Autumn Eladrin. The party can attack the Eladrin and speak to the servant, who tells them that Esmeray had sent her (via coded messages) to find information on Phoebe. The door was unlocked when she got there. The servant knew Esmeray before, back when she was "Selene's pet", but now she wants to play revolutionary.

##### Royal Wing

If they proceed to the Royal Wing of the Winter Tree, Mahsa can be found there attempting to complete a teleportation circle. She reveals that she supported Selene in order to have a new Queen of Winter for the Prince of Frost. Once she tells him about the ascension, he will invade the Palace and destroy the Moonlight Vale. If the Autumn Court can't have the Vale then no one should! She just needs to get you away from the party long enough to attack. She opens a portal, calls through several enemies, and steps in to the teleportation circle.

`encounter: 1: Dusk Hag, 3: Redcap`

`dice: [[9. The Grand Revel at Moonlit Vale#^rhaan-dusk-hag-prophesies]]`

### Scene 8: Final Visit to the Ballroom (Purple)

When the party gets back to the ballroom, Mahsa, Ihan, and Selene are all there. Pax approaches the party to ask what they found out and what they should do. The Baron will speak soon - do you wait for Mahsa to attack, or expose her publicly and prevent further bloodshed?

The Baron gives a rousing speech to the court about how the Age of Winter will bring a period of reflection and peace to the whole of Thelanis, and how it's our great honor to transition from one season to another. She then gestures to Mahsa, as a representative of the Autumn Court, and invites her to come stand next to her. If the party chose to expose Mahsa, then Pax steps forward and lays out all the facts in front of the court, and Mahsa jumps from the balcony to escape. If the party chose to wait for Mahsa to attack, then she stabs the Baron, and gets away by jumping from the balcony.

### Scene 9: The Fight in the Garden

Mahsa's jump from the balcony lands her on the garden below, where she should fight to the death.

`encounter: 1: Autumn Eladrin`

Her primary tactic is to keep distance and use her Longbow exclusively - this can be assisted by a Fey Step bonus action, or failing that, using one Multiattack action to cast Hold Person and move away 30 feet and then fire her Longbow. Mahsa should never exceed 60 feet from the party due to her other abilities being negated beyond that range.

At half hit points and below, Mahsa should use one of her Multiattack actions to cast *cure wounds* on herself in order to restore 5d8+4 (`dice: 5d8+4`) hit points.

### Conclusion

After the fight, if Selene was killed, then the party will need to determine who to support for ascension to the throne - either the Summer Court with Ihan (which is what Destiny demands, but Ihan doesn't want it, which could lead to further instability in the court), or the Spring Court with Esmeray (who would likely stabilize the court but might anger Destiny). It's also possible they could convince Pax to cast *revivify* on the Baron and return her to the throne.

If Selene wasn't killed, then the party might want to come up with a way to deal with the Prince of Frost threat, otherwise he will come into play later. He could even rise to power within the same visit to this moon, as time flows differently between each area of Rhaan. So if the party were to visit one or two other areas of the moon, they may happen upon an NPC who mentions that the Palace of the Moon has frozen solid, and that the party has actually been away from the Palace for quite some time (without them being aware of the time difference). Alternatively, if the party were to threaten the Baron in some way, she would send her personal guard after them (Winter Eladrin) rather than dealing with things herself. A threat such as this could even cause the Baron to choose to ally with the Prince of Frost herself, expediting his return.

`encounter: 2: Winter Eladrin`

If the party were to return to the Palace, a battle with the Prince of Frost should be pretty epic, with icy terrain all over the Palace making things more interesting (Dexterity saves to move around, possibly). The Prince would fight to the death to preserve his new kingdom, and his Queen who has recently returned to him (as he believes Baron Selene to be).

`encounter: 1: Prince of Frost`

### Random Tables

| dice: 1d10 | Dusk Hag Prophesy                                                              | Related Adventure                              |
| ---------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------- |
| 1          | "The Traveler of the chaos is one of your own."                                | [[1. Zarantyr, the Storm Moon]] (The Traveler) |
| 2          | "The Gateway pulls you in, but you must continue your journey."                | [[11. Aryth, the Gateway]]                     |
| 3          | "Seek out the sword to appease Destruction."                                   | [[12. Vult, the Warding Moon]]                 |
| 4          | "Night eventually comes to those who wander the void."                         | [[12.5. Into the Night]]                       |
| 5          | "Whispers are heard by the captain, but directed by she who embraced undeath." | [[14. Susurrus, Palace of Whispers]]           |
| 6          | "Dreams hold power; beware those who assault them."                            | [[13. Crya, the Lonely Dreamer]]               |
| 7          | "The Lonely Dreamer's plan will change it all. But not all change is bad."     | [[13. Crya, the Lonely Dreamer]]               |
| 8          | "A Prismatic Wall at the edge of the world opens up the world further."        | [[14. Leaving Shardspace for the Astral]]      |
| 9          | "If winter comes against Destiny's wishes, then beware the Prince of Frost."   | [[9. Rhaan, the Book]]                         |
| 10         | "Sibling squabbles befall even those who rule over moons."                     | All 7 of the Endless                           |
^rhaan-dusk-hag-prophesies

### References

* Based on *Wicked Eyes and Wicked Hearts* from *Dragon Age: Inquisition*
	* Baron Selene = Empress Celene
	* Grand Duke Ihan = Grand Duke Gaspard
	* Grand Duchess Phoebe = Grand Duchess Florianne
	* Envoy Esmeray = Ambassador Briala
	* Lady Mahsa = Morrigan
	* Pax = Josephine (basically)

* From “The Game Master’s Book of Traps, Puzzles and Dungeons: The Moon Pool (pg. 21) combined with The Wrong Lever (pg. 86)