#adventure #completed [[Delethorn]] [[Gelel Embertree]] [[Ditan Indaze]] [[Boraz d’Tharashk]]

### **Background**

Delethorn's mayor, Gelel Embertree, directs the party to address the problem of the warehouse that was recently built in town. He doesn't know a whole lot about the warehouse, as it's locked down and no one has been able to get inside. He also notes that he hasn't seen anyone, save for vehicles picking up or dropping off materials, enter or leave the building - which is downright strange. He does have a couple of ideas of how to potentially get inside or learn more about the factory:
- He believes that an old sewer access to the building may still exist. Boraz, a half-orc who lives on the edge of town, has claimed the sewers, so the party will need to speak with him.
- All receiving and shipping is done via water at Lake Galifar. If you could get access to a water vessel, it might be possible to sneak or talk your way into the building. Ditan Indaze runs the docks here.

He encourages the party to be careful, and if they encounter anything that may be over their
head, to report back to him immediately.

### **Hook(s)**

The party meets up at the Gold Dragon Inn in Delethorn, after waking up from a night’s stay there following their own disparate travels. The town’s mayor wanders in to the inn and asks for help with a situation that’s been on his job board for quite some time, offering a reward to this first group of adventurers he sees.

### **Synopsis**

- The party gets the background on a new warehouse popping up from the mayor - it’s especially suspicious because no one’s been seen entering or leaving, even through they’re shipping product in and out.
- The party can choose how to get to the warehouse, since it’s boarded up - either via the Sewers (asssisted by Boraz) or via the Lake to get to the warehouse’s dock (assisted by Ditan).
- The warehouse itself is swarming with zombies, and the foreman is a wight. If confronted, the wight will flee to a forest to the east.

### Scene 1: Access Warehouse (via Sewers)

If the players seek out and speak to Boraz, he will direct them to the sewer opening outside, and warn them of some of the dangers he's encountered. It will not be a simple matter to get through the sewers, and a number of natural dangers have grown up in there such as the Violet Fungus.

Ancient sewers, much like Sharn and other cities in Khorvaire, run under Delethorn.

The Sewers are completely dark. Since sewers are often filled with volatile gases, players are encouraged to use magical light rather than torches. The north, west, and south branches of the Sewer each have a slight grade toward the center (2), and that all drains with a slight grade toward the east (6).

1. There are a number (1d6) of Violet Fungus (DC 1/4) spaced along the walls of the first 90 ft of the sewer corridor.
    1. [https://www.dndbeyond.com/monsters/violet-fungus](https://www.dndbeyond.com/monsters/violet-fungus)
2. A 15 ft long pool of mud covers the next section. A successful DC 12 Dexterity check can be used to cross it without slipping (or another relevant check such as Athletics/Acrobatics to jump it).
3. A single undead worker Zombie (CR 1/4) has somehow fallen into the sewer and is wandering back and forth in the next 60 ft section. It is not immediately hostile to the party, so they can come up with a way to sneak by (Stealth versus Zombie's rolled [Wisdom -2] or Passive [8] Perception), should they choose, but if they touch the Zombie then it will attack.
    1. [https://www.dndbeyond.com/monsters/zombie](https://www.dndbeyond.com/monsters/zombie)
4. At the end of the sewer corridor is a dead end. There are a number of rungs built into the wall, but several are missing. So if the party is to climb up, they'll need to use a DC 15 Strength or Dexterity check to get themselves up there. Or a clever method to fill in some rungs is used, the check DC will drop (12 and then 10).
    1. The Sewer exits in a small bathroom at the front left of the Warehouse.
5. The west branch of the sewer has another rung ladder that leads out of the Sewers to a forest west of the city, on the edge of The Gloaming. A oily pool is on the floor at the end of the hall before the ladder, which if interacted with will reveal itself as a Gray Ooze (CR 1/2).
    1. [https://www.dndbeyond.com/monsters/gray-ooze](https://www.dndbeyond.com/monsters/gray-ooze)
6. The east branch of the Sewer has a flooded floor that drops down 5'. This is the end that eventually drains into Lake Galifar, and there's nothing else of interest here.

### Scene 2: Access Warehouse (via Lake)

Players will need to talk to Ditan and convince him to let them use the galleon to access the Warehouse (DC 15 Persuasion). The galleon has a speed of 10 miles per hour.

When they get far enough away from the dock, a thick fog rolls in. A DC 15 Perception check is needed to successfully direct the ship out of it. Creative use of magic and/or light can grant advantage.

When the players reach the dock of the Warehouse, there are three Zombie workers moving crates. They will ignore the players unless attacked, but will fight if provoked. The player can choose to dock the ship on the far side of the building (requiring a more difficult DC 20 Intelligence check to steer) and sneak into the building without being anywhere near the zombies, or dock directly at the end of the dock (DC 10 Intelligence) and have to walk right past them.

### Scene 3: Explore Warehouse

All the windows of the Warehouse are boarded up, since the Wight foreman is sunlight sensitive. There is dim light throughout, so no darkvision necessary.

The party enters either in a small bathroom in the southwest corner (0, from the Sewers) or the west wall of the main receiving area (3, via a water vessel). Whenever the party enters the Warehouse or goes between floors, roll 1d6 to determine the location of the Foreman (as indicated in the table below).

1. (Entry): A stairwell here leads to the second floor. There's a wooden door to the east, a large door on the south wall leading outside (which is locked, DC 15), and a wood and glass door on the north wall leading to the main production area. The north door allows the players to see through to the production area from the glass on the top, so they can see the Zombie workers from a safe distance.
2. (Storage):
3. (Receiving): A door to the south leads to the Entry area (1). A wood and glass door on the east wall allows the players to see through to the production area from the glass on the top, so they can see the Zombie workers from a safe distance.
4. (Production): This area has a total of 12 Zombies working diligently - three on each side of two large tables. Materials are coming in from the Receiving area (3), and flowing from the north table around to the south table, and back out on another boat. All of this can be seen by the players, but it's not entirely clear what all is being produced. There are shelves on the north and south walls, that could be used in creative ways, such as tipping them on to the line of Zombies. The Zombies will only attack the party if they interfere with production in any way, or directly touch/attack one (in which case only that one Zombie would attack, with the others continuing to work), or are commanded to by the Wight foreman.
    1. DC 20 Perception check (from a distance), or DC 12 Perception (up close): players can ascertain that the two tables seem to be producing two different things. One is taking in food from the boat, cleaning and treating it with something, then putting it on a different boat. The other table is producing mechanical parts for something (the Marbaran Resonator, but they don’t know this) in an assembly line.
5. (Upper Foyer): This is basically just a second floor landing. An eastern door leads to the Foreman's office (6), and a northern door opens up to a balcony (7).
6. (Office): This is the default location of the Foreman of this factory, a Wight (although his location can change based on a dice roll, as noted earlier). Unlike the Zombies, the Wight (CR 3) will actively attack the party if he encounters them. This can be a deadly fight if done from the start, so the players should ideally report back to the mayor if they engage him, but alternatively you can have him leave after a few rounds of combat if needed (see below). If the room is searched, the following checks will reveal certain items:
    - DC 10 Perception: a map on the Foreman's desk is found, on which is marked locations all around Eberron (the locations of Detlev's other monsters, but they won't know that yet). In the case of the foreman leaving, this map should be replaced by another map of The Gloaming and a diagram of a Mabaran Resonator (and the other map can be found on the foreman's body after the PCs pursue him to The Gloaming)
    - DC 15 Arcana / DC 20 Investigation: A single Speaking Stone is found in a drawer of the Foreman's desk
    - [https://roll20.net/compendium/dnd5e/Wight](https://roll20.net/compendium/dnd5e/Wight)
    - [https://eberronoriendrift.obsidianportal.com/wikis/mabaran-resonator](https://eberronoriendrift.obsidianportal.com/wikis/mabaran-resonator)
7. (Balcony): This simply serves as another way for the players to safely observe the working Zombies below.

### Conclusion

If the players engage and attack the Foreman, he may participate in a few rounds of combat (in which he should use Life Drain once), but should command four of his Zombie workers to attack instead. Once the Zombies have engaged the party, the foreman should slip away to the sewers and exit west on his way to The Gloaming (he's going after a Mabar Crystal he planned to get to build a Mabaran Resonator, and the plan has to be sped up now that he's discovered). After defeating the Zombies, the players should find a map of The Gloaming with a diagram of a Mabaran Resonator nearby.

[[1-02. Beyond Delethorn]]

### Random Encounters