#adventure #completed [[Delethorn]] [[Niern]] [[The Gloaming]] [[Passage]] [[Rhak Mohani]] [[Taog Ennisi]] [[Saneri]]

### **Background**

[[1-01. Delethorn Warehouse]]

### **Hook(s)**

The warehouse foreman ran off - what else are they gonna do?!

### **Synopsis**

- The wight foreman from the Delethorn Warehouse runs off toward a forest in the east. On the way, the party will happen upon the village of Niern, where they will meet two different sects of druids.
- The druids can direct the party to The Gloaming, a manifest zone of Mabar, where they saw the wight run in to. There the final showdown with the wight will happen, and the party will find a map on the body.
- The map exposes several points of interest that open up the “Marker” adventures. The party should determine where they want to travel next, with Passage being the next largest city near to Delethorn (and home to the House that can help them with their new Speaking Stone).

### Scene 1: Pursue the Foreman

Upon entering The Gloaming, the party should roll a Perception or Survival check to attempt to track the Foreman (or another solution they come up with) - DC 12 will reveal tracks that they can follow. If the party convinces a Druid to come with them, they may use Locate Object (on the Mabar Crystal) or Locate Creature (on the Foreman) to reveal the direction to travel. On a failure of this check, roll on the Random Encounters table below to see if the party is attacked instead - after the battle they can repeat the Survival check or attempt another method of tracking.

A second Survival check (DC 12) should reveal the actual location of the Foreman, with a failure resulting in another Random Encounter roll. After defeating the Foreman, a DC 12 Investigation check will reveal the Mabar Crystal in his pocket.

- Wight Foreman (CR 3): [https://roll20.net/compendium/dnd5e/Wight](https://roll20.net/compendium/dnd5e/Wight)

Any time a tree or shrub is interacted with in any way, it's actually determined to be awakened and it attacks.

- Awakened Shrub (CR 0): [https://roll20.net/compendium/dnd5e/Awakened%20Shrub](https://roll20.net/compendium/dnd5e/Awakened%20Shrub)
- Awakened Tree (CR 2): [https://roll20.net/compendium/dnd5e/Awakened%20Tree](https://roll20.net/compendium/dnd5e/Awakened%20Tree)

Players may level up if they complete a combat or two while in The Gloaming. Long Rests can be completed within the area, but watch will need to be maintained - roll on the Random Encounters table either once for the night or once for each watch.

### Scene 2: Decipher the Map and Travel

We’ll need at least one or two ways to give the players a lead or two on the map.

- Mayor Embertree would recognize the “triangles” marker as being somewhere near or in New Cyre, the new home in Breland of those displaced during The Mourning. He would also point out to the Paladin that the “flame” marker appears to be in/near Flamekeep. Finally, he can direct the party toward Boraz for further help.
- Boraz, as a member of House Tharashk, would recognize the “runestone” marker as being in the Shadow Marches where Orcs are most prevalent. He can’t tell the exact location from this map, but it appears to be somewhere near Zarash'ak (the capital), although it could be anywhere in the Vile Marsh.
- Anyone shown the Speaking Stone could direct them to Zilargo, home of House Sivis, (specifically Korranberg), or Passage, which is closer and has House Sivis representation as well. The gnomes of House Sivis there can use the markers on the map as “phone numbers” to contact someone in the each area to see if they can get more information.

Travel could be done two ways, by water (Lake Galifar) or by road.

- If by water, the trip takes about 28 hours at minimum. Roll a d20, on a 1-10, the boat is still at the factory dock from before; on a 11-20, the boat was retrieved and is back at the Dock (which would require them to convince Ditan to let them have it). For a player serving as lookout, a DC 12 Survival check once a day will ensure that the correct route is maintained, on a failure add an additional day of travel. For another player serving as navigator, a DC 12 Intelligence check (DC reduced by one on each success) will ensure that they know how to steer the ship. On a failure, add a day of travel as they go in circles. Call for a new roll any time navigators are changed (such as when they’re sleeping and someone takes over).
- By road is about 1,700 miles, which would be 71 days on foot, which isn’t doable. So the players would need to obtain mounts from the Stables, which would require convincing Ditan again. That cuts travel time down to about 35 days. Each day by road, call for a DC 10 Survival check (if they stick to the road, DC 15 if they veer off), and on a failure do a random encounter based on the terrain type.
    - Horse, riding     Cost: 75 gp    Speed: 60 ft.     Capacity: 540 lb.
    - [https://5e.tools/encountergen.html](https://5e.tools/encountergen.html)
- Each night they sleep, roll a d6 to determine if one of the players has a dream/vision.

| d6 | Result |
| --- | --- |
| 1 | Astra’s Vision (The “Runestone” Marker) |
| 2 | Onme’s Dream (The “Flame” Marker) |
| 3 | Windsor’s Dream (The “Water” Marker) |
| 4 | Bystan’s Dream (The “Triangles” Maker”) |
| 5-6 | Nothing |

### Conclusion

Passage would be the closest large city that has a House Sivis enclave. Journey's Home, built on a hill, is big enough to be considered a district in and of itself, and it is the center of a bustling nexus. Around it, one can find districts like the Zil Quarter (where the Zil experts in elemental binding live), Farmarket (where one can find products from all over Khorvaire), the Cannith factory district, or the Speaking Hub (where House Sivis can easily send messages to each of the markers on the map or give any other relevant information).

Alternatively, the party could go all the way to Zilargo, with the main House Sivis enclave. This could be accomplished by the Lightning Rail (see Murder on the Orien Express adventure, and change the endpoint from Sharn to Korranberg).

### Random Encounters

[https://wrightmat.github.io/dnd/dice.htm?roll=d6](https://wrightmat.github.io/dnd/dice.htm?roll=d6)

| d6 | The Gloaming Encounter |
| --- | --- |
| 1 | 1d4 Swarm of Insects (CR 1/2) |
| 2 | Giant Stag Beetle (CR 2) |
| 3 | 1d4 Myconid Adult (CR 1/2) |
| 4 | Carrion Crawler (CR 2) |
| 5 | 1d4 Shadow (CR 1/2) |
| 6 | No encounter |