#adventure #completed [[Flamekeep]]

Onme dreams while sleeping:

> *You open your eyes and find yourself in a great cathedral, with white alabaster walls supported by massive flying buttresses and fitted with dozens of tall, stained glass windows set in ornate, wrought iron frames. In the distance, a dark-skinned human with grey eyes sits on a jeweled throne. Her hair is black with light streaks through it, which she wears cropped short, and she's dressed in simple apparel of dull shades of grey and black with no shoes. In front of her, a brilliant circular mosaic of floor tiles houses a large silver flame.*

> *As you move closer, you see the flames shift, with a crimson colored shadow slowly emanating from within. The closer you get, the more the flames change, and the more the crimson component of the flame differentiates itself. Just as you're close enough to reach out and touch the flame, it divides entirely in two, with the Silver Flame still prominent in front, but a clearly distinct Crimson Flame now visible behind it. Your focus is pulled from the flames though, as the girl in the throne screams out in terror. Your eyes dart upward and you focus on what's going on past the flames, just as a large shadow arises from behind the throne. The shadowy creature has a recognizable face and looms over the girl in the throne. But your focus is swiftly shifted again as you hear a loud clank from behind you, and you quickly turn around to see a large templar soldier wearing tarnished crimson armor. She swings a large sword at you, and everything goes dark.*

- Onme would immediately recognize this place as the Cathedral of the Silver Flame in Flamekeep.
- The girl in the throne is Jaela Daran, the current Keeper of the Flame (DC 15 History).
- The Shadow in the Flame (Bel Shalor), is an Overlord of corruption and shadows (DC 20 Arcana).

The Church of the Silver Flame has sent out word to all Paladins in Khorvaire that the Tarnished have recently become more organized under the leadership of someone known as the Tarnished Templar. The church is concerned about their numbers growing so quickly. By time the party gets to Flamekeep, the Templar has already attacked the Cathedral. Follow the rooms in the Cathedral of the Silver Flame location, down to the catacombs. From here, the party could use the hidden escape tunnel, or just backtrack out of the Cathedral and make their way to the area north of Flamekeep on Scions Sound where the Tarnished Templar is working on building a lightning rail track (just the underwater portion at this time).

The Tarnished Templar is working as an avatar of Bel Shalor, the Shadow of the Flame, who is trying to create his own Crimson Flame (the antithesis of the Silver Flame) and free himself from his prison. In order to do this, many people will need to be sacrificed. This will be like a re-creation of the Year of Blood and Fire, 299 YK, where a pillar of crimson fire erupted on the shore of Scions Sound and dark and vile creatures crawled from the ground.

She's gathering workers to connect the countries of Aundair/Thrane and Karrnath by building a new, hidden, lightning rail line below the water of Scions Sound to Tanar Rath (in place of the old White Arch Bridge). This may not be an easy task because The Aundairan, Thranish, and Karrnathi navies all patrol the area. Little do these workers know that they'll be sacrificed in bulk (to bring on the Crimson Flame) upon their completion of the job.

[[1-04. Cathedral of the Silver Flame]]

> You come upon an expansive work site with what appears to be dozens of people lifting large crystals and placing them in and near the waters of Scions Sound. The group is being led and directed by a large templar soldier wearing tarnished crimson armor.

When the party approaches the work site at Scions Sound, the Templar will see them coming and get at least one surprise round in. The first round will be spent casting Hold Person at 3rd level on two of the PCs if they’re within 60 feet. If not, then she will throw her Hellfire Orb toward the crowd of workers behind her, killing 1d20 of them immediately, turning them into Crimson Shades (the Shades want to move toward the Cathedral, and specifically the Silver Flame rather than toward the party, with even as many as 1d6 of them disengaging and leaving the fight each round). Her second turn should be spent performing the other action, and both turns’ movement should be used to get her closer to the Cathedral. Her final turn should be used to dash toward the Cathedral, disappearing over the hill.

[https://critterdb.com:443/#/creature/view/62bb1a9a629cac032a854e41](https://critterdb.com/#/creature/view/62bb1a9a629cac032a854e41)

> Shades! We must approach the cathedral and draw forth the Crimson Flame!

After the party defeats the Shades, they can find the Templar outside the Cathedral in the Templar training grounds outside of area C2.

> I see you have dispatched my Crimson Shades. No matter, I will just have to sacrifice you to Bel Shalor instead! A pillar of crimson fire shall erupt, and I shall bring about a true Year of Blood and Fire!

[https://critterdb.com:443/#/creature/view/62a530380e4795ec3fe43f61](https://critterdb.com/#/creature/view/62a530380e4795ec3fe43f61)

> You may have stopped me, but you are no match for the one I serve. Approach Karrnath and meet your eternal end!

After the battle, a DC 12 Perception check reveals a *Necklace of Prayer Beads*.

When the party reports back to Knight Commander Defender or Keeper Jaela, Onme is given the title and rank of Knight Lieutenant (essentially a promotion from a standard Knight) in honor or their service. This gives her perks in the church, such as free room-and-board at any Temple, and recognition of her service across Thrane.

> “Sister Templar, you are a tricky one to track down, You must have been quite good at lying low over these years. But the Church has many resources, and I have indeed confirmed your identity as Templar. Knight Omne Nanvia Donverou, in recognition of your service to the Church of the Silver Flame in neutralizing the Tarnished Templar threat, I hereby bestow on you the rank of Knight Lieutenant, with all of the rights and responsibilities therein.”

> Jaela places a circular Rondel, with the Silver Flame arrowhead emblem, made of beautiful Blue Bronze metal, on Onme’s breastplate - replacing a Rose Copper one that was there before.

> “Knight Lieutenant, go forth and continue the good work of the Church, while enjoying your additional prestige. Your deeds will be remembered throughout Thrane, and especially Flamekeep, where you might find yourself recognized by shopkeepers and others who wish to repay your service. You will also have free room-and-board at any Temple of the Silver Flame across Khorvaire, to assist in your travels. Should you need anything further, never hesitate to return to Flamekeep.”