#adventure #completed [[New Cyre]] [[Oargev ir’Wynarn]]

Bystan dreams while sleeping:

> *You awaken on an old worn cot in a large stone-carved room with a number of other cots. Creatures in the other cots wake up, hop out of bed, and immediately start funneling toward the door. You feel yourself being pulled toward the door with them, and down a long winding stone-carved hallway. The group stops in a small room with barrels of odd-smelling food, which you all voraciously lap up. You leave after eating, and after what feels like several minutes of walking, the hallway ends in a large chamber full of equipment and people. You feel yourself drawn to the nearest wall where a handheld drill sits on a table next to a bucket with a few blood-red crystals.
> You spend what feels like hours mining these same enchanted crystals from the stone, until you hear a loud whistle denoting the end of the day. Everyone in the chamber funnels back down the hallway, stops at the food hall, and heads back to the bunk room. You crawl into your bunk, sore and tired, and immediately fall asleep.*

> *The next day everything happens exactly as before. And the next day, and the next. It feels like weeks before something changes. One day, when you arrive at your post, you're approached by a large mechanical-looking creature.*

> *"You, Artificer, who allowed you in here? Your kind are not permitted in my mine. You know that it was your people, the people of science and tinkering that created my kind. Do you show up here to mock your creation? To see what your weapons of war have made with their so-called lives now? Be gone, filth!"*

> *And with that, the mechanical man charges toward you and hits you so hard that your back hits the wall, your body goes limp, and all goes dark.*

- The mechanical man could be recognized as a Warforged (DC 15 History) which are found all over Khorvaire but are centered around New Cyre or The Mourning (DC 20 History).
- The blood-red crystals being mined are Eberron Dragonshards (DC 15 Arcana).

The artificer’s antithesis (who relies on quick movement to avoid AoE and ranged attacks) is a Greenshadow Warforged named Echo, who is collecting/mining dragonshards from Pargon's Peak north of The Seven Caves. He's refining them into residuum, the powdered form used as spell components, and sending it off to Karrnath.

[https://keith-baker.com/ifaq-dragonshards/](https://keith-baker.com/ifaq-dragonshards/)

He's set up a base in New Cyre to gather workers for the cave, but he'll be found in the depth of the caves after braving the packs of wyverns that inhabit it. Along the way, Warforged supervisors ensure that human workers keep working under devastating conditions (basically slaves). But if the party attacks the supervisors or the equipment, they fight back.

He has also kidnapped any artificers in the area, along with a member of House Cannith who lived in New Cyre, Lei d'Cannith. House Cannith has posted a reward (500 gp) for return of their family member. She can be found serving in the depths of the mines, in the largest chamber, next to Echo.

[[1-08. Eberron Dragonshard Mines]]