#adventure #completed [[Urthhold]]

Astra receives a vision while sleeping:

> *You sit up with a start, as the intense aroma of fetid swamp mixed with sea air hit your nostrils. Slowly standing up and looking around, you see yourself surrounded by a crowd of people - a mix of orcs, humans, goblins, and half-orcs. Off in the distance, a strong voice echoes a speech that you can't quite make out. As you walk toward the voice, you look out at the horizon and freeze in disbelief. A oval-shaped monolith, which you immediately recognize as a hanbalani alta, can be seen on the beach. Your entire body tenses up as your mind swings to another vision.*

> *You find yourself running as fast as you can through a lust jungle, the sounds of footsteps reverberating behind you. One last burst of adrenaline pushes you through the dense greenery into a clearing, but your relief is short-lived. All around you are large white ovular monoliths. “These must be the hanbalani alta”, you think to yourself, “they look just like my parents described”. A wave of sadness comes over you, but there’s no time for that! You see now that the monoliths are swarming with a number of Inspired workers, so you immediately change direction and continue running north-east, toward your destination of Ohr Kaluun.*

> *The swampy sea air hits your nose again, as you find yourself standing in front of a Khalasthar man orating to the crowd from an elevated platform. Standing next to him is a half-orc child bearing a Dragonmark that you do not recognize. In the distance you can barely make out a ring of stones engraved with runes.*

> *The man exclaims: "The fish does not seek to fly, and the raptor does not swim. Each life is a lesson, and you must live the life you have been given if you hope to rise in the next. Follow the path, and do not stray. Help your neighbors, and call on them when you are in need. And above all, trust the Inspired, whose wisdom guides us all."*

> *Just as he finishes his speech, a large creature with a centipede-like body made up of countless swarming blue tendrils rushes toward you. A glowing blue light that shines from within the tendrils collides with you, and you feel a wave of pleasure overcome you as your head hits the ground HARD … and everything goes black.*

- The swampy setting would be recognized as the Shadow Marches, and probably Urthhold specifically, by any Orc asked. The players would not recognize it, as they've never been there.
- The ring of stones engraved with runes is a Gatekeeper Seal (DC 15 History), and is also a hint to the runestone marker on the map (DC 20 History).
- The tendril creature is Astra, a Hashalaq Quori, and the one bound to Astra. It's the one providing the vision and reaching out to Astra for connection after they abandoned the Path (DC 20 Arcana).

Urthhold itself has very little in the way of shops and supplies. Just west of Urthhold is the Gatekeeper Seal near which people are gathered. Malharath has already used the people gathered there to build a hanbalani monolith to control dreams and communicate with Sarlona.

[[1-10. Gatekeeper Seal]]

When a long rest is completed during the “Runestone” marker adventure, the entire party experiences the same dream:

> Rejoice! Tomorrow, after a very important announcement from your beloved Inspired leader, many of you will begin your travels. To a country that was torn apart during a long, arduous war. To a village known as Lakeside, where you can perform honest work, and contribute to your new village and nation. Rejoice in service to your fellow man, and spread the word of the Path of Inspiration. Sleep soundly my brethren, for tomorrow we make a real difference!

Malharath has been gathering people by spreading the word of a newly discovered Dragonmark known as the Mark of Revelation, which he's also using as a ploy to get people to trust the Khalastar and the Dreaming Dark.

Basically he's started a cult around this Dragonmark where people come to Urthhold in order to convert the existing Gatekeeper Seal into a Teleportation Circle to Sarlona. This will destroy the Gatekeeper Seal so followers can give birth or conceive of children in the Manifest Zone of Xoriat, hoping to spawn a Dragonmarked child. The cult followers don't know about the seal holding back a Manifest Zone, and the Inspired Agent doesn't know that it's a Manifest Zone to Xoriat (assuming it's somehow a link to the Dreaming Dark that's been sealed away).

The Dragonmark was created by the daelkyr of Xoriat, and makes its wielders unbound by the Draconic Prophecy. So in actuality both Arend and the Inspired are being manipulated by the daelkyr (possibly aligned with the Dreaming Dark) without their knowing.

> A shirtless man in a long skirt steps up to the center of the Gatekeeper Seal and addresses the crowd: “Friends! You have traveled far in order to bask in the glory that is the Mark of Revelation, and today is the day! Your trust in The Inspired will pay dividends, and that begins soon.”

> A small girl walks up to join the Inspired Agent at the center of the Seal, and he continues: “This girl was born in this very place only a few short months ago, the power that’s being held back by this circle of stones blessed her with this Mark and her quickened growth. We must tear down this outdated structure to unleash the power within, so all can benefit. So more glorious children can be born with the Mark. Come, friends, we must get to work!

The initial fight is with Malharath, the **Inspired Agen**t (CR 2) and a swarm of cult followers trying to destroy the Gatekeeper Seal (they use the **Cultist** (CR 1/8) stat block if needed).

The Gatekeeper Seal has three primary stone pillars, each with an HP of 27 and an AC of 15. At initiative 20 (basically a lair action), a swarm of cult followers attack the Seal, so roll 3d20 (one for each pillar) to determine if they succeed. On a 19 or 20, the swarm succeeds in a Strength (Athletics) check to topple a pillar entirely. On a 12 or greater, the swarm succeeds in attacking a pillar and does 4d4 damage to it.

- If the Inspired Agent is defeated, the swarm of cult followers stops attacking and disperses.
- If all three pillars of the Gatekeeper Seal are destroyed, 1d6 **Dolgrim** (CR 1/2) emerge from the area and join the fight.

*Vicious Mockeries:*

"You aren't worthy of the Mark of Revelation."
"Arendorn will strike you down without batting an eye. I hope he finds you in Karrnath."
"The Gatekeeper Orcs look and smell better than you!"
“Your very existence is an insult to all!”
“You smell like an ogre’s belch!”
“You look like a scab on a troll’s wart!”
“You reek of dung and fouled ale!”
“You look like the offspring of a vulture and a rat!”
“A goblin with one hand nailed to a tree would be more of a threat than you!”
“You must have been born in a stupid-tree, fell, and hit every branch on the way down!”
(to a woman) “Be gone, you limp-chested harpy!”
(to a man) “I’ve seen little girls that are more of a man than you are!”
(to Onme/Bystan) “I should expect as much from a half-breed!”
(to spellcaster) “Your magic is about as potent as a bee trying to sting a boulder!”

Once the Inspired Agent is defeated, a **Tsucora Quori** (CR 7, but HP could be nerfed if needed) emerges from his corpse.

After the battle, a DC 12 Perception check reveals a needle for Barrier Tattoo (uncommon) on Malharath. He’s also wearing *Uncommon Glamerweave* clothing (with is an item, not armor, so Astra can use it).