#adventure #completed [[Sharn]] [[Merrix d'Cannith]] [[Vernon Stone]] [[Tourmaline Stone]]

The party will arrive at Terminus (Lower Tavick’s Landing) if arriving by lightning rail, Wroann’s Gate (Lower Tavick’s Landing) if arriving on horseback, or Highest Towers (Upper Central) if arriving by Airship.

Their main goal is Windsor’s parents’ house in Oakbridge (Middle Northedge), so they’ll need to move up to either Tavick’s Market or Cornerstone (Tavern District) in Middle Tavick’s Landing. Or their shop is in North Towers (Lower Central), so they’d only need to move west across a bridge to the Central District.

Secondary goals might be:
- Bookstores (all over North Towers)
- Morgrave University library (Upper Menthis)
- Merrix d’Cannith at the Cannith Enclave in Dragon Towers (Middle Central) or secret laboratory below the Red Hammer Inn (Upper Cogs)
- Custom equipment (Clifftop Guild in Upper Dura or Deathsgate in Middle Tavick’s Landing)
- Circle of Song, in The Golden Horn, an inn in the University District (Upper Menthis)

**Sharn Facts:**
- **Towers**: The towers of Sharn range in height from about 100 feet to nearly a mile tall, but their basic construction resembles that of a traditional castle or other stone building. The towers are generally broad at the bottom and narrow at the top, many of them peaking in elegant spires or domes, while others are crowned with flat platforms that hold parks, pools, or small estates.
- **Lifts and Ramps**: One of the most important uses of magic in Sharn is in the creation of magic lifts to facilitate vertical travel between the levels of towers. Particularly at lower levels, ramps wind around the inside or outside of large towers to get wagons from level to level, but at higher levels special levitation devices carry passengers and even cargo up and down within the towers.
- **Falling**:  The city offers a standard reward of 25 gp to a spellcaster who casts feather fall on a falling person. Bridges in the Upper-City and Middle-City are also warded with permanent feather fall effects to protect those using them from falling bodies and other large objects.
- **Upper Tavick**:  A character must obtain a license to carry a weapon within Upper Tavick’s Landing. This license can be obtained at the courthouse in Twelve Pillars, and costs 5 gp.  A different license is required to cast spells within the district; this costs 10 gp and requires the character to specify the spells he wishes to cast.  Upper Tavick’s Landing has a dress code. Inhabitants must dress “in a manner that upholds the solemn dignity of this proud ward,” and it is up to the individual Watch officer or Deneith guard to interpret what this means.  Unruly conduct—fighting, shouting in the streets, and other forms of rude behavior—results in a fine of up to 5 gp and temporary expulsion from the ward.
- **Merrix d’Cannith**: Runs a secret laboratory in the Cogs, with a secret entrance in the Red Hammer Inn (Upper Cogs). He would be visibly flustered seeing Prism, as she was his father’s secret experimental prototype.


**Tavern Encounters**

| d8 | Encounter |
| --- | --- |
| 1 | So, a Dwarf and an Elf Walk into a Tavern... |
| 2 | So, a Werewolf and its Prey Walk into a Tavern… |
| 3 | So, a Girallon Wearing a Headband of Intellect Walks into a Tavern... |
| 4 | So, a Rat Walks into a Tavern and the Serving Girls Run Out... |
| 5 | So, a Barbarian Walks into a Tavern... |
| 6-8 | Nothing |

**Area Encounters**

**Lower Dura (or below)**: If the players enter Lower Dura, or any area below that level (such as The Cogs), then they are approached by two NPCs who recognize Prism, but as Celeste instead. They ask Celeste where she’s been, and then ask for her help on a job. They got asked by Cecilia McNab, a Brelish woman and Sharn native, to help retrieve a ring she lost at a Boromar Clan club. See “A Keye Without a Locke” encounter.

**Upper Districts at Night**: If the players enter any upper district at night, then they happen across a dead body and a cloaked figure. See “The Forgotten Forge” encounter.