#adventure #completed [[Aerenal]] [[Pylas Talaear]]

This adventure can take place in any of the forests/jungles of Aerenal. The players will have to dock in Pylas Talaear, since it’s the only place open to outsiders. From there, there are several large jungles almost the same distance from the city, so just handwave the travel.

> You enter a dense and lush forest, with an incredibly thick canopy, that could easily be described as a jungle instead. A huge variety of plant life can be seen as you scan the horizon, from trees you’ve seen all over Khorvaire, to dark thick trunks which look like they could never be cut down, to lightly colored trees whose branches seem to almost float upward.

When the players arrive, have them roll a DC 15 Survival check to determine what they find. On a failure, they get lost in the jungle for 2d12 hours and don’t encounter any soarwood trees (but could continue to describe other flora such as the Darkwood trees and Covadish plants). On a success, they find 1d6 soarwood trees while exploring, each of which has a trunk width of 1d6 feet (rolled independently), and a height in inches of 8 times the trunk width (TW). On a success of 5 or more, they find 1d8 trees. The trees can be tracked in the table below.

The mechanics for cutting down trees and gathering soarwood is as follows:

1. Roll attacks until the tree’s HP is depleted, denoting that the tree is knocked down. Soarwood trees are objects with AC 15 and TWd10 hit points, and resistance to piercing, bludgeoning, poison, and psychic damage.
2. Alternatively, a Strength check could be used to knock down the tree instead of cutting it, with the DC being 6 times the trunk width (4 ft. TW = DC 24). An axe or another tool would still be needed to cut up the tree, and it still takes an hour.
3. Roll a Nature check to determine if the tree will fall as the player intends, with the DC being 4 times the trunk width (4 ft. TW = DC 16)
    1. On a failure, the tree falls the wrong way after being cut down. Any player within a radius equal to the tree’s height needs to roll a DC 12 Dexterity save to avoid it, taking TWd6 bludgeoning damage on a failure (and nothing on a success).
    2. On failure of 10 or more, the tree gets hung up on other trees, preventing it from falling at all. No soarwood can be harvested from that tree.
4. Take an additional hour per tree to cut it into lengths, logs, and planks.
5. Each time a tree is felled, and each night the party rests in the jungle, roll a d20 - on a 1 or 2 a random encounter happens.
6. When done, the party will need to get the boards back to their ship! Normal hardwood weighs between 3 and 4 lbs. per board foot, so soarwood should weigh 1 lb. per board foot. So a player alone can carry their Strength score times 15 board feet of soarwood (Windsor, with a STR of 15 can carry 225 lbs., so 225 board feet of soarwood). This should be at a slow pace (and they do count as mechanically encumbered) back to their ship, so calculate travel time appropriately and roll a d20 each day to determine random encounters.

N.B. 6.3 board feet are needed per square foot when building a house. So give them options on what size they want to make the ship, and calculate how much wood they’ll need. An elemental galleon is 30’ x 90’ = 2700 sq. ft. = 17,000 board feet.

[Soarwood](Shardjammer%20Finding%20Soarwood%2054942ada66334d6bb45e9c6618170dba/Soarwood%20cacae26b32bb4398886004969cc7fa4e.csv)

| d12 | Random Encounter |
| --- | --- |
| 1-4 | 1d4 Elf lumberjacks, licensed under the service of the Sibling Kings, arrive and inquire of the party’s intentions in the jungle. If they discover that the party has been cutting down trees, then they should attack (using the Archer stat block). |
| 5 | 1 Adult Oblex |
| 6 | 1d3 Awakened Trees |
| 7 | 1d3 Ettercaps |
| 8 | 1d4 Giant Constrictor Snakes |
| 9 | 1d4 Meenlocks |
| 10 | 1 Shambling Mound |
| 11 | 1 Wood Woad |
| 12 | 1 Giant Ape |