#adventure #completed [[Middle Central Plateau]] [[Ythana Morr]]

### **Background**

The Archierophant, Ythana Morr of the Cathedral of the Cleansing Flame, is the leader of the Church of the Silver Flame in Breland. This arm of the church considers itself separate from the church in Thrane, and in fact they have a bit of a rivalry. At the same time, Ythana is secretly working with the rakshasa Zathara and Bel Shalor, the Shadow in the Flame.

The Tarnished Templar that the party encountered in Flamekeep was working for Ythana long before she started helping out Arrendorn. The Archierophant employs a few other Tarnished Templars that spend most of their time in Sharn’s underworld or outside of Sharn rather than in the Cathedral itself. If they do need to come to the Cathedral, they trade their crimson armor for silver armor so as not to be suspected.

### **Hook**

**Another Tarnished Templar.** If the party returns to the Cathedral of the Cleansing Flame, the Archierophant is accompanied by a Templar now, whereas before she was alone. The Templar does not speak, and Ythana speaks on her behalf, explaining that she’s come to the Cathedral to rest before returning to her pilgrimage. Any investigation of the Cathedral (DC 12 Investigation) will reveal a set of crimson armor, seemingly in the Templar’s size, stowed away in a small side bedroom.

### Scene 1: The Templar and the Cathedral

After allowing a few minutes for conversation, the Templar leaves, walking toward the bedroom. A DC 15 Perception check will allow the characters to see a Templar dressed in crimson armor slipping out the back of the Cathedral a few minutes later.

The Templar is headed to the underbelly of Sharn, specifically to Khyber’s Gate in The Upper Cogs. The players can proceed in a number of ways (with each check resulting in development prior to the next check - see below):

- Follow her by succeeding in a Stealth skill challenge - 3 successful checks (can be rolled as a group) before 3 failures. Failure means that the Tarnished Templar sees them and runs away, requiring them to find another way to track her.
- Track her by succeeding in a Survival skill challenge - 3 successful checks (can be rolled as a group) before 3 failures. Failure means they lose the trail and will need to find another way to get to her.
- Ask around to various people in the city about a Templar in crimson armor by succeeding in a Charisma skill challenge - 3 successful individual checks before 3 failures. Failure means that enough people aren’t willing to talk to them and they can’t get enough information, requiring another approach.
- Another creative approach, as determined by the party.

The first successful check in any above skill challenge leads the party to the Upper Cogs area of Sharn.

> The Upper Cogs are a honeycomb of passages, just wide enough for the carts and caravans that transport goods to and from the surface. The heat is palpable, and smoke and sulfur scents the air. The Cogs are old, and light is provided by everburning torches as opposed to everbright lanterns; these torches are often spaced far apart, so there can be stretches of shadow between the pools of light.
> 

After setting the scene, Sergeant Dolom with the Sharn Watch also appears and addresses the party, having noticed that they appear to be tracking a Tarnished Templar after leaving the Cathedral of the Cleansing Flame. Information he can impart:

- The Sharn Watch has been keeping an eye on the Archierophant and believe she may have ties to unsultry powers in the depths of the city.
- The best approach to take her down might be to let the church intervene, but the group will need proof of her extracurricular activities.

Dolom can answer any questions the players might have, and even accompany them down to the Cogs to serve as an advisory NPC.

The second successful check leads the party to the Khyber’s Gate (Central) district.

> This is an actual city beneath the city, with homes and shops carved into the walls of the Cogs. It is still a maze of passages, but the “streets” are a little wider and the ceilings rise higher. The heat is far less intense than in the industrial district, but the air is still filled with the stench of smoke and garbage. Goblins watch from the shadows, and in the distance two ogres stagger out of a bar.
> 

The third successful check leads the party to The Workshop of Tyrial Dashar.

> Amongst the tiny houses carved into the tunnel walls sits a larger stone workshop. It is said that a mighty conjurer created this underground workshop in order to carry out his experiments without placing the city at risk.
> 

### Scene 2: The Workshop of Tyrial Dashar

A mighty conjurer created this underground workshop in order to carry out his experiments without placing the city at risk. He was eventually killed by a rakshasa that escaped its bonds, and ever since then his workshop has been a fortress of the Lords of Dust. Currently, the rakshasa (sorcerer) Zathara and rakshasa zakya (warrior) Nethatar reside in this dungeon keep. Ythana Morr is working with Zathara in an attempt to free the Shadow in the Flame, Bel Shalor.

The top floor of the workshop operates as a cover for the operations below, with a shop dealing in conjuration magic run by a more “reputable” (at least amongst the “cellar dwellers”) shopkeeper named Cavallah (LE female ogre mage rogue 3). Any scrolls of conjuration magic could be purchased here, and a Clothier’s Closet takes up one corner of the shop, which will reveal the presence of several crimson cultist-style robes amongst the clothes if Investigated (DC 15).

[https://dndtools.org/spells/magic-of-eberron--9/clothiers-closet--4676/](https://dndtools.org/spells/magic-of-eberron--9/clothiers-closet--4676/)

| Spell Level | Rarity | Price |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 0 - 1 | Common | 25-50 gp |
| 2 - 3 | Uncommon | 51-250 gp |
| 4 - 5 | Rare | 251-2,500 gp |
| 6 - 8 | Very Rare | 2,501-25,000 gp |
| 9 | Legendary | 25,001+ gp |

[https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/school/conjuration](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/school/conjuration)

A hidden staircase can be found in the back of the Clothier’s Closet if fully Investigated (DC 18). Otherwise, the party may convince Cavallah to help them and she can reveal the location of the staircase.

### Scene 3: The Heist

The lower level of the workshop is a maze of stone tunnels eventually leading to the dungeon keep serving as the headquarters of Zathara and Nethatar.

**Features of the Area**

**Ceilings and Walls**. All surfaces are made of stone. Hallways are 10 feet wide and 15 feet tall.

**Illumination**. Stone sconces dot the walls, giving off an eerie light from crimson flames within them. Dim light throughout the area.

The goal is to get through the depths of the workshop without being detected. Introduce several small challenges - such as needing to avoid guards or navigate a maze of hallways - and allow the players to creatively solve them.

Each player is allowed one “flashback token” that enables them to explain something they prepared prior to starting the heist that will help them in this moment. A roll may still be required depending on the action being performed, but be generous with advantage.

For each ten minutes (major action in-game) that’s spent in this area, add a d6 to a “threat pool”, as they’re more likely to be discovered the more time they waste. If the players are caught during a challenge, or make a large racket, then roll all of the dice in the pool. Or roll the pool when it gets to 6 dice (1 hour). Each 6 results in a random encounter.

**Challenges**:

- A large metal door immediately after the staircase down is locked. A DC 18 Thieves’ Tools check is needed to pick the lock.
- Two tarnished templar guards patrol a circuitous hallway, with only a small gap between their patrol (video game style). A Stealth check against their Perception (+3, passive Perception 13) is needed to avoid detection.
- A locked metal door with a window in it leads to the Archierophant’s office, but it’s locked and requires a DC 18 Dexterity (Thieves’ Tools) check. The door is also electrified, which can be discovered with a DC 16 Investigation check, and disarmed with a DC 16 Sleight of Hand check. If a player touches the door without disarming the trap, then they take 2d6 lightning damage.
- Inside the office is a locked safe (with nothing else of substance in the office, except for a Scroll of Revivify on the desk if checked with a DC 15 Investigation check). The safe can be opened with a DC 20 Dexterity (Thieves’ Tools) check, but if the check fails, then a trap door opens and it drops to a chamber below, dangling via a chain over a large pool of water. This also sets off an alarm alerting guards (roll the pool).
- Several guards are in a room outside of the pool. If they see the players getting anywhere near the door of this room or near the safe, they hit a button on their console that drops the safe into the pool. The players may find some means of draining the water, attempt to swim down to the safe, or something else entirely.
- The pool contains a giant crocodile that can't be seen until someone enters the pool.
- The safe can be opened with a DC 20 Dexterity (Thieves’ Tools) check. Inside is the papers needed to prove the Archierophant’s association with the Shadow in the Flame.
- The players will have to escape the area once they have the information they need, without being detected or stopped.

### Scene 4: The Escape

Have every player roll a Stealth check with a DC of 13 (the passive Perception of the Tarnished). For every player that fails, add a die to the threat pool. Repeat this if the safe dropped down below the office, as the route back is longer. After the Stealth checks, roll any dice in the pool, and every rolled 6 results in 1 Tarnished Templar attacking them on exit. If the pool fills up with six dice, then the party is attacked by Nethatar on exit (or Zathara the Rakshasa if they’ve already fought Nethatar).

### Conclusion

Zathara works for Durastoran the Wyrmbreaker, Bel Shalor’s *prakhutu* (chosen speaker) who resides in Ashtakala in the Demon Wastes and sits on the Bleak Council of the Lords of Dust. Durastoran the Wyrmbreaker is an ak'chazar rakshasa, a powerful tiger-headed fiend with backwards hands and the coloration of a white tiger.

It should be made clear that approaching the Demon Wastes or attempting to take on the Lords of Dust would be suicide, but the information about Zathara’s boss should be given, so as to expand the lore of the world and give a next step to the quest to clear corruption from the church. Bel Shalor embodies the concept of corruption in the Church of the Silver Flame.

### Random Encounters

Encounters occur on any 6 rolled on a d6 in the “threat pool”.

| d8 | Encounter |
| --- | --- |
| 1 | 1 Tarnished Templar |
| 2 | 1d8 Crimson Shades jump down from the wall sconces |
| 3 | 1d3 Carrion Crawler |
| 4 | 1d6 Violet Fungus |
| 5 | 1 Adult Oblex |
| 6 | 1 Black Pudding |
| 7 | 1 Allip |
| 8 | Nethatar, the Zakya Rakshasa (Zethara’s assistant) |