#adventure #completed [[Trolanport]]

They’ll need to decide where they can build a ship, ideally without too many eyes on them. Options could be:
- The Mournland
- Xen’drik - probably the Stormhome Docks
- Flamekeep or Thaliost (only if they get the support of the Church of the Silver Flame)
- Trolanport Docks
- Sharn Docks

They’ve talked about using some sort of magic to protect the launch area, to avoid the possibility of another Mourning-like event. May also want a way to hide or disguise the ship, so everyone doesn’t know the launch is happening (if built like a regular-looking airship, then it could take off like one and then just fly into the clouds).

> As your spelljamming ship blasts off from the surface of your home planet of Eberron, you feel a powerful force press against you as the ship rapidly gains speed. From the observation deck, you can see the vast oceans and continents that you've become familiar with stretching out before you. The sky shifts from blue to a deep, inky black as the ship exits the atmosphere, and the stars change from pinpricks of light to bright, vivid dots. But that light is dwarfed by the immense light of both Dol Arrah, the Warrior Sun, and the Ring of Siberys. Rida's song grows louder, and the ship's engine hums as it picks up speed, and you feel a sense of weightlessness and freedom, as if you are floating in an endless ocean of stars. The sense of awe and wonder is palpable as you realize the vastness of "the up" and your place in it.