#lore 

The githzerai aren’t natives of Kythri, and their presence is an act of defiance: through unparalleled mental discipline, they create bastions of order in the heart of chaos. If they seek order, why don’t they dwell in Daanvi? It’s not that they simply desire order, but to strengthen their will by imposing it on a reality that absolutely defies it. The struggle is the purpose. Beyond this, they’re served by the fact that even great powers can’t scry into Kythri.

The githzerai don’t dwell on the Shifting Islands of Kythri. Instead, they’ve created their own islands in the Sea of Chaos: vast monastery vessels the size of small towns, moving through the eddies of chaos and defying transformation. The githzerai devote themselves to meditation and self-improvement, with little interest in what transpires beyond their monasteries. They have no particular love of outsiders— they consider all creatures of Eberron to be warped shadows of their stolen reality— but neither are they inherently hostile. A persuasive group of adventurers could find brief shelter in a githzerai monastery, especially if they bring something interesting to trade or have compelling stories to share. However, should the outsiders offend the githzerai, they’ll feel no remorse in eliminating them; there’s nothing evil in shining light to dispel a shadow.

The leader of the githzerai monastery is known as The Great Githzerai and the post is currently held by a man named Zaerith. Under him are a group of especially adept monks known as the Zerth.
