#druidic [[Rida Tan Lorghalen]]

The Lorghali produce excellent mediators, apothecaries, and farmers, but what makes them truly remarkable is their tradition of stonesinging— a form of primal magic— and their relationship with the elementals of the region. Lamannian elementals are alien creatures whose thought processes and perception of reality are quite different from the humanoids of Eberron. Rather than binding elementals, as is common throughout Khorvaire, Lorghalan stonesingers influence elementals and natural forces by communing directly with each spirit and convincing it to help. A simple stonesinging effect, such as one produced by druidcraft, is hardly more complicated than singing a few words in Primordial. More significant requests require deeper communion with the spirits, including both concentration and an expenditure of will in addition to the song— urging the spirit to comply and impressing the request onto it. (As such, stonesinging follows the same rules as other forms of spellcasting.)

A stonesinger’s most frequent and important work is with elementals. On a Lorghalan ship, a stonesinger literally sings to the elemental associated with the ship, encouraging it to move the vessel swiftly. If a ship’s stonesingers are killed, the elemental still recognizes the vessel as friendly, but it can’t be compelled to perform any particular action and may simply wander off. On the island, stonesingers negotiate with elementals to establish which territories the gnomes can build within, as well as convincing earth elementals to plow their fields and water elementals to irrigate the crops. Especially remarkable stonesingers can manipulate elemental and natural forces in more subtle ways— charming beasts, encouraging plants to grow, even conjuring fire or calling lightning from a clear sky. Others learn the melodies that define their own bodies, learning how to heal injuries or even change their shape.

Almost every Lorghali knows at least a few simple songs, but those who can work greater magics—usually those with the powers of bards or druids (see “Variant Rules”)—are greatly respected. While stonesinging is a unique tradition that plays a central role in Lorghalan culture, the gnomes have nothing against other forms of magic; in particular, Lorghalan alchemists perform many wonders using the unusual plants of their island. The original immigrant families included a handful of dissidents from House Sivis, and while the Lorghali have made no particular effort to cultivate the Mark of Scribing, a few gnomes in each generation still manifest the mark; such gnomes often become the most gifted wizards of the island.
