#adventure [[Sypheros (Mabar)]] [[Despair]] [[The Bone King]] [[Empress of Shadows]]

> A sea of liquid shadows laps against black sands and basalt cliffs. A skull lies half-buried in the sand, empty sockets gazing into the roiling mist. The bone isn’t sun-bleached, for there is no sun here; only a faint glimmer from the Astral Sea above.
> A great drifting citadel floats above a large city in decline, a kingdom of bones, and an expansive desert of black sand. On the horizon, what appears to be pieces of other planes are being absorbed into the unending shadow.

Early scholars studying reports of Mabar concluded that it was the Plane of Darkness— that this physical property is its defining concept. However, the plane’s eternal gloom is just a symptom of its true nature. Even the brightest day eventually ends in darkness, and Mabar embodies this idea.
It’s the shadow that surrounds every island of light, patiently waiting to consume it. It’s entropy, despair, and loss. This isn’t the place where the souls of the living go after death, but rather, it’s the plane of death itself—the hunger that consumes both light and life.

### The Drifting Citadel

This floating tower was once a library; a former part of Syrania. Now it drifts through an icy void, grand windows shattered and books fallen from their shelves. Shadows of sages clutch at books with insubstantial fingers, never able to turn a page. The angelic librarians are now tormented spirits who hunger for knowledge, draining the memories from any creature unfortunate enough to fall into their grasp.

This is the home of Despair, where she observes sorrow through her various mirrors.

>You are brave to venture into this place of endless darkness. But your bravery is futile. Here, there is only despair. It is all-consuming, all-encompassing. And once it takes hold, there is no escaping its grasp. Are you prepared to face the void, adventurers?

>I see you have come to Mabar seeking answers, seeking comfort. But there is no comfort here, no answers to be found. Only the unrelenting weight of despair. Why do you persist in your search, when there is nothing left to hope for?

>Do you seek solace in oblivion?

### Amaranthine City

If the Endless Night has a heart, it would be the Amaranthine City… a metropolis that fills an entire layer, and is the antithesis of the city of the same name in Irian. Nothing flourishes in this plane; banners are tattered and gardens are withered. But it is still wondrous in the scope of its cyclopean towers and grand fortifications. It is the capital of an empire in decline, and yet the hint of what it was at the height of its glory makes it wondrous even when faded. And it is no empty shell; it is a city alive with activity. This is the seat of the Empress of Shadows.

### The Kingdom of Bones

Where the domain of the Amaranthine City feels like an empire in its last days, the Kingdom of Bones is one that’s already fallen. If a layer contains a fortress, it’s not preparing for a final battle; it’s what remained after the battle. The gates are shattered, and bloodstains and broken weapons are scattered across the floors. The people of this domain fought a dreadful war and lost... but this being Mabar, their bones remain. The skeletons of peasants continue their menial labors, seemingly oblivious to the futility of their actions. Even in death, these commoners are oppressed by their cruel lords. Wights, deathlocks, and vampire spawn might serve as the soldiers of the tyrants, while the overlords themselves may be vampires or mummy lords, still ruling from their ruined keeps.

All of the kingdom’s cursed nobles bow before the Bone King, who embodies the concepts of death and decay. A lich in rotting finery, he stands as a warning that even the mightiest lords eventually become dust and bone. He prefers to drain the life slowly from fragments he claims; he wants his hostages to dwell on their coming death while their land withers around them, for lords to turn on their people before he finally kills them all.

### The Last Desert

> You come upon a desert of black sand under a starless sky. There are remnants of glorious monuments: the half-buried head of a grand statue, its eye cracked; a fragment of a memorial wall, engraved with names that can no longer be read; ruins so worn that it’s impossible to guess what purpose the building once served.

Characters proficient in History and Arcana can recognize that these monuments are drawn from dramatically different cultures; some are the work of celestials, while others might have been created by the giants of Xen’drik.

At the center lies a massive tomb-palace. Its style suggests the architecture of Aerenal, but it’s grander than even the City of the Dead. This is The Necropolis - the fortress of the Queen of All Tears, the ruler of this domain. The Queen is an embodiment of misery, and her subjects are largely incorporeal undead, shadows and wraiths from the barren sand. Meanwhile, cruel specters and banshees attend her, along with succubi and incubi who bask in the delicious misery that suffuses the region.

[[10. The Necropolis]]

### The Hinterlands

The Hinterlands are the outer edge of Mabar, the collection of planar fragments that are currently being consumed and integrated into the Endless Night. Here, the Hunger of Mabar property has not yet taken hold, which generally makes them safer to visit than other layers of Mabar. The Mabaran properties a fragment reflects vary depending on its nature and how close it is to complete integration with Mabar.

There can be infinite variety in the fragments within the Hinterlands. This largely depends on what plane a fragment is from. Is it a verdant forest of Lamannia? A floating tower of Syrania? Or is it a piece of the Material Plane— a fortress plucked out of the Last War or a Riedran village? The second question is how long the fragment has been under siege. To what degree does it retain its original flavor, and how much has the influence of Mabar overtaken it?

### References

[https://keith-baker.com/the-endless-night/](https://keith-baker.com/the-endless-night/)