#adventure [[Aryth (Dolurrh)]] [[Death]] [[The Librarian]] [[Smith of Souls]]

**Potential Concept**: The players are killed somehow, either when they land or in a previous plane, and have to navigate this plane as souls and retrieve their bodies. Be sure the players still have agency and aren’t railroaded into death - possibly have a large monster of some sort in orbit around the planet - and anyone who doesn’t die in the battle can land on the planet as their moral selves. Have a time limitation on retrieving bodies, with anyone not retrieving their bodies becoming lost shades, and anyone wishing to move on instead creating a new character. Death is a friendly character who introduces the dead characters to the plane, and guides them as needed, while also making it clear that their time is limited and they will become lost shades or their souls will fade away into nothing.

Additionally, they can come across an area of the plane that houses a small portal that’s slowly drawing souls out of the plane. This is connected to the idea of the Cannith Creation Forge that they learned about in Xen’drik. There is now only one small one active, in the Mournland, and being used by the Lord of Blades (formerly Aaren d’Cannith). Here is one lost soul, who calls himself Merrix, and is protecting the portal. He is Merrix the Elder, who is Aaren’s father. He regrets the way he treated his son, and is now held here due to this regret, so he’s protecting the portal as a way to help his son in some small way. Will the players help him come to terms with what he’s done in life so he can move on? Or will they try to close the portal, in an attempt to put a stop to Aaren’s work but also possibly help Merrix? And how would Merrix react?

### The Catacombs

> Endless caverns stretch throughout this area, bleak passages of gray stone. Wherever you go, shadowy figures reach toward you, imploring, but you feel only the faintest chill as their insubstantial fingers pass through you. Mist pools around your feet, and as you press forward you realize this swirling mist is moaning. This is no natural phenomenon; these are the remnants of souls who have long forgotten their original form.

Tunnels are carved into gray stone. In some places they are painfully tight; in others they widen into grand halls, with ceilings lost in the darkness. The dead are everywhere, shades pleading for release and husks keening in the shadows. Some chambers contain vast wells filled with moaning mist; in others nalfeshnee herd shades into pens or scrape lemures off the walls. There is no particular logic to it, just endless tunnels.

The Catacombs may be larger than Khorvaire, or even Eberron. A mortal could wander forever through these winding tunnels, or at least until they are consumed by ennui. However, there are junction points that transcend the logic of distance. If one knows the right symbols to follow, they can cross the vastness of the Catacombs quickly or pass to other layers.

### The Kennel

All the mortals born on Eberron are bound to Dolurrh, but like spirits are drawn together. The Catacombs hold the spirits of dead humanoids. The Kennel is similar in appearance, but it contains the shades and husks of beasts and monstrosities. Here you’ll hear the howls of fading wolf spirits, and see flocks of spectral birds flying through grand halls… along with larger and more fierce creatures. Beast spirits rarely linger long in Dolurrh, as most have fewer memories to erase.

It’s possible that the Queen of the Dead has created special servants that wander these halls, just as she has made the shadar-kai; adventurers could be questioned by a clever raven with the soul of a poet. But nalfeshnee and maruts can be found here as well as in the Catacombs.

### The Crucible

In the Crucible, the immortal spirit known as the Smith of Souls refines the essence of faded spirits and creates things out of this husksteel. The Smith forges the armor and weapons of the shadar-kai, and creates the maruts from the husks of brave souls. She also creates smaller and stranger items from husksteel. This is a comparatively small layer, but it is still a grand foundry, tended by shadar-kai and guarded by newly-forged maruts.

The Smith wears a mask of black steel and an apron that seems to be made from dragonhide. When forging maruts she is a giant; when crafting tiny trinkets she appears to be a gnome. It’s possible that she collects the memories of mortal artisans, and can replicate their works at her forge.

### Vault of Memories

The heart of Dolurrh is the Vault of Memories. It’s a tower carved up through gray stone, larger than any of the great towers of Sharn. The lowest levels are the Library. Here, the spirit known as the Librarian interviews each shade and makes a record of its life. The power of the Librarian is such that an entire life can be confined to a single large page. Every sigil inscribed holds a crucial memory; a character proficient in Arcana can read the symbol to experience that memory. The many floors of the Library hold countless books of preserved lives, carefully tended by shadar-kai scribes. The Librarian himself is a massive hooded figure, and his books are enormous. It’s said that he can be many places at once, which is how he is able to speak to every shade before it fades.

If the players decide to look around, they can find the book of any being's life that they know of with a successful DC 12 Investigation check. Alternatively, roll on the table below if they just want to look around and see what they find. A DC 15 Arcana check by any player proficient in Arcana can read a random memory from the creature's book.
`dice: [[11. Aryth, the Gateway#^dolurrh-vault-memories-beings]]`

In the halls above the library, the Queen of the Dead (also simply known as Death) keeps her many treasures. What seem to be obsidian statues are actually shades, crystallized to prevent them from fading into husks. Paintings and crystals contain memories that Death has chosen to isolate. Beyond these are countless trinkets and oddities, items collected by her shadar-kai over the vast scope of history. And higher still are the chambers of Death herself, where she usually sits in silent contemplation listening to the whispers of the countless shades in her domain.

### Random Tables

| dice: 1d12 | Being              |
| --- | ------------------ |
| 1   | Tira Miron         |
| 2   | Arend Dorn         |
| 3   | Echo               |
| 4   | Elias Stormbringer |
| 5   | Empress Donata     |
| 6   | Samuel Raclette    |
| 7   | Gridani            |
| 8   | Malharath          |
| 9   | Lhazaar            |
| 10  | Cael Vadalia       |
| 11  | Aundair Wyrnarn    |
| 12  | Galifar Wyrnarn    |
^dolurrh-vault-memories-beings

### References

Use the Convergence Manifesto Adventure AE01-10: At Death’s Door.
