#adventure 

### Background

This tells the story of an assault on a large population center, known as the City of Knives, defended by high walls and panicked guards from the Legion of Freedom. The adventurers find themselves within the walls of a metropolis that has been entirely surrounded by invading forces from the Legion of Tyranny which wants to not only capture the place, but slaughter the people within. There will be no mercy, and no respite, as the Legion of Tyranny send wave after wave of fighters against your party and the Legion of Cruelty is found attacking from within.

### Hook(s)


### Synopsis

- The players are presenting several scenarios as the siege progresses, each of which effects the balance of power for the area between the four legions. Success or failure for each will change the Legion Standing for the City of Knives as described in the sections below.
- To start, the party is led to believe that the Legion of Freedom holds the city, as they're the ones protecting it from the Legion of Tyranny in the first few scenarios. But they soon discover that the Legion of Cruelty has the upper hand and is controlling things from within.
- The Legion Standing of each legion may trigger certain Scenes to happen, or they can be started at DM discretion in a narratively satisfying way.

### Scene 1: Close the Gate

The Legion of Tyranny have sent their fastest units ahead of the main force and are making for the gates. The guard have moved quickly to close the mighty doors to keep them out, but spies and infiltrators have attacked them and thwarted their efforts. A number of guards lay dead on the ground, one of their number now revealed to be a spy having slain them. Two more such spies have closed themselves inside the tower where the gate locking mechanism is, and are braced against the door to prevent anyone else from getting in. To prevent the enemy army from gaining easy access to the city, the party must get past the attacker on the ground and close the gates by hand. They must then find their way into the room with the locking mechanism and seal it shut before it is too late.

The city is protected by the Legion of Freedom, but is being attacked from all sides by the other legions.

##### Encounter
One invader disguised as a Legion of Freedom watchman (but is actually a Cambion from the Legion of Cruelty) stands on the ground, surrounded by four slain loyal watchmen. Behind him, the large wooden gates stand open. To the side and up a small flight of stairs, the room housing the locking mechanism has been occupied by two other Cambion who have braced against the door to keep the party out.

The gates are large and heavy, each side usually requiring two or more guard to close. Each side requires a single DC 20 Strength check to push closed. The door to the gatehouse is strong wood, locked, and braced by two Cambion on the other side. The door has AC 16, and 27 hp.

A single window to the gatehouse stands fourteen foot above the ground. If characters try to fire through it, their targets count as having three quarters cover, giving +5 to their AC. Once inside, the mechanism can be triggered by pulling a simple lever at the far side of the room. It can be activated at any time, so long as the gates are not fully open.

The Legion of Tyranny's cavalry (Bearded Devils riding Nightmares) will arrive at the gates in ten turns. If they reach open gates, they will move straight in and start attacking anyone who's not part of the Legions of Cruelty or Tyranny. If the gates are closed, they will try to force it open with Strength Checks of their own, opposed by any characters holding the gate closed. Three successful contests will force the gates open again.

##### Success (+1 to Legion of Freedom, -1 to Legion of Tyranny)
If the party can activate the locking mechanism before the invader army breaches the gate, then a sturdy iron portcullis will fall into place with a loud clang. It slides down, and characters directly by the gate will dive backwards to avoid it as the portcullis slams into place, thoroughly bracing the gate.

As it falls, a contingent of the Legion of Freedom can be seen making their way down the nearby street to finally reinforce the gates. Finding the party there and seeing what has happened, their commanding officer, Lord Commander Terxyx, sets his people to their duties and then thanks the adventurers. The Legions of Cruelty and Tyranny are coming at the city from all directions, and it looks like they’ll be in for a long fight. If the party are willing to help, the Lord Commander says that other trouble is brewing elsewhere, and they will ask the party to help solve another problem.

##### Failure (+1 to Legion of Tyranny, -1 to Legion of Freedom)
Failure at the gates spells doom for the city. Through the open gateway an entire army can march into the city with ease, and once fortified it will never be retaken. If the invader cavalry arrives and is able to enter the gates before they are locked, then the approaching reinforcements can be easily overwhelmed. The party will likely have to retreat, and any further encounters are upgraded with increased troop numbers. Escape from the city may be the only option now.

### Scene 2: Hooks and Ladders

The Legion of Tyranny have set ladders and hurled grappling hooks against the wall, creating a way for their forces to scale the sheer surface and reach the parapets. Once at the top, they have quickly dispatched the few guards standing against them and have established an important beachhead into the city. The party come to the scene as the invaders have already claimed the top of one section of wall, and more invaders are climbing the side to start swarming into the streets.

##### Encounter
When the party arrives, one unit of invaders is at the top of the wall already, standing over the bodies of four members of the Legion of Freedom who fell defending the city. At this section of wall, four ladders and three hooks have been set up, giving the enemy a way to climb with relative ease. The troops already on the wall (Quasits) will defend these access points until more units can reinforce them, possibly supported by air support if you wish to make this encounter more challenging.

On initiative 1, at the end of the first combat round, the first invader reinforcements will start making their way up. Each turn, 1d4 invaders (Quasits from the Legion of Cruelty) will choose a ladder or hook (either by DM choice, or by rolling 1d8-1). They will then take five turns (including the first) to reach the top, arriving on the parapet at initiative 1 on the fifth round.

As soon as they reach the parapet, the creature should either roll for its own initiative, or be added to the initiative for any enemy group it is close to upon arrival. This process is repeated at initiative 1 for every round of combat while there are still ladders or hooks to climb with, with every round bringing new creatures who start the climb at a random position, taking five rounds to reach the top.

An invader climbing is not able to act other than to climb, except for those at the top of a ladder or rope, who can attack with disadvantage. Climbing invaders can be attacked however, counting as prone for the purposes of the attack. The only way for the party to stop the endless tide of invaders is to destroy or remove the ladders or hooks. Ladders are all made of tough, treated wood, reinforced at the joins by tightly bound leather. Sections can be damaged by striking against AC 15, each section having 8 hp.

Destroying only the top 5 feet of a ladder will not make it unusable however, as invaders can still reach from the new top of the ladder to reach the parapet. At best, destroying the top 5 feet increases the climb duration for creatures on that ladder by one turn. If however a character can destroy at least the top 10 feet of the ladder, it becomes unusable. Each ladder is being held in place by a number of invaders on the ground who can be quickly replaced but a strong character can force the ladder away from the wall and throw it aside, also making it unusable. Doing so requires the character to make an opposed Strength check against a group of invaders with a Strength bonus of +2. The invaders working as a group however, they have advantage to their roll.

Each hook is firmly in place, but from it a thick rope descends down to the ground where it is held by one invader. If there are no invaders currently climbing a rope, then a character can make an opposed Strength check against a Strength bonus of +2 to pull the rope away from the invader holding it, and pull the rope up to the top of the wall.

Alternatively a rope can be attacked by hitting AC 13, each top section of rope having 8 hp. Each rope is also flammable, and can be set alight, destroying them instantly. Attacks such as these severe the rope and make any invaders currently climbing them fall to the ground below.

##### Success (+1 Legion of Freedom, -1 Legion of Cruelty)
Defeating the invaders here by destroying the ladders and ropes gives the city a slight reprieve and stops the enemy forces from moving directly into the streets and toward the further gates where more forces await. With the wall secure, Legion of Freedom reinforcements can retake the wall and relieve the party as well, giving both their thanks and respect. If the party are badly wounded from the fight, the leader of these new guards can offer the party healing before telling them that further threats are already within the city.

##### Failure (+1 Legion of Cruelty, -1 Legion of Freedom)
Failing to stem the flow of invaders climbing the wall, the party may find themselves killed, captured, or forced back into the city. Failure here would be just as bad as at the city gates, costing the city a major defense and allowing the enemy a way to spread unimpeded. Further defense may be possible at inner walls, or amongst the city streets, but the party will more than likely face increased enemy numbers now.

### Scene 3: Defend the Shelter

Some Legion of Cruelty demons have already made it inside the city by secret ways, and are causing havoc. As the defense is mounted, civilians panic and rush to find shelter in underground areas where they can seal themselves away and hope that the battle passes them by. The party come to the entrance of one such shelter, a large metal set of doors at the bottom of a few steps, and a stair beyond that door leading down into sealed catacombs where civilians can be safe. Looking up and down the street, the party catch sight of civilians running toward the open door, but behind them and from other side streets Legion of Cruelty infiltrators come to stop them. The party need to defend the entrance to the shelter until the coming civilians have time to get inside and seal the doors from the inside.

##### Encounter
The party stand before the double doors of a shelter on a thirty-foot wide street. The street stretches some distance to both left and right, with two small alleys directly across the way.

Starting from the first round and then every two rounds after that (the third, fifth, etc), a group of 1d3+1 civilians (mixed adults and children) will start moving from a line sixty foot to either left or right and start making their way toward the doors. They only have a speed of 15 feet each, meaning they can dash and move 30 feet per turn, because they are limited both by injury and by slower children amongst their number. Each group of civilians should always move together and try not to split up, to represent family units who do not want to leave members behind.

The civilians will continue to come for eight rounds. Starting from the second round, 1d3 shadow demons from the Legion of Cruelty will also move into range. On even numbered rounds they move into the street from the left line, and on odd numbered rounds they come from the right. These will be weaker infantry common to their units, not too difficult to do battle with, but they will come in waves every round. Their primary goal is to breach the shelter and kill any civilians they find there. They will attack civilians they see heading for the shelter, and might prioritize those targets over the adventurers unless directly attacked by them.

The demons will keep coming as long as there are civilians in the street. The doors to the shelter will lock the moment they are closed.

##### Success (+1 Legion of Freedom, -1 Legion of Cruelty)
Success in this mission is highly subjective, but given the circumstances the party can find success if at least half the civilians who make for the shelter are protected and get inside when the doors are closed. The party can also decide to close the doors earlier, if they think it will keep the invaders out, though it may sacrifice a few civilians who arrive afterwards. Regardless, the closure of the doors is the ultimate goal. Giving time for more civilians to get inside just adds to the overall effort. once the doors are closed, a warning from afar alerts the party to a new danger they must deal with.

##### Failure (+1 Legion of Cruelty, -1 Legion of Freedom)
Should any invaders get through the doors and make their way down the stairs, then they will start killing civilians they find there. The shelter being breached is a death sentence for those civilians and for anyone who thought reaching it would be their best chance for safety. Any guards or other civilians who pass by afterwards may well find the slaughter, and become deeply demoralized.

### Scene 4: Put Out Fires

Civilians can be seen running from a warehouse district that's clearly on fire. A celestial from the Legion of Freedom approaches the party and asks them to address the fires while his forces regroup from the last attack. He offers a Wand of Tidal Wave (Xanathar’s Guide To Everything, pg 168) to the party if they need something to put out the fires.

##### Encounter

Following the line of civilians leads the party to a particularly large warehouse, that is currently on fire and on the brink of collapse. From the moment the party either enters the warehouse or begins using the wand, the encounter should be run in initiative order. At initiative 20 in each round after the first, each point of fire spreads into an available area, expanding its area by 5 feet in all directions. Crates spread about the building are slightly more resistant to fire than the rest of the building. Fire which spreads into crates only covers half the area, the other half being filled when the fire spreads in the following turn. Any instance of the Tidal Wave spell used on the upper level spreads as normal, dropping to the lower level where it crosses over and continuing into the same area as normal.

If the party is having too easy a time and more challenge is desired, the fires are being set by a Cambion who can reveal himself and attack the party.

##### Success (+2 Legion of Freedom)
Putting out the fires (and possibly putting an end to whoever or whatever might have been causing them) will secure another area of the city, and make their contents (food, clothing, etc.) available to the population and defenders of the city. The party can take this chance to resupply if they need to, the warehouses having enough food and drink for them, as well as some weapons and ammunition.

##### Failure (+2 Legion of Cruelty)
If the fires are allowed to spread and grow rampant, they will eventually cover the entire building and consume it entirely. Parts of the walls and ceiling will start to collapse, and some larger pieces will fall toward other nearby buildings, and spread into the city. Slowly, piece by piece, the fire will keep spreading and destroying more homes, places of business and administrative areas. As the siege goes on, this will only make defending the city much, much harder.

### Scene 5: Destroy the Siege Engine

The Legion of Tyranny are bringing a large construction up to the exterior wall. Though some of them have already found ways into the city, this sheltered battering ram has the strength to bring down a section of wall and leave a big enough opening for an entire army to move in. The guards at the wall call out for help, as they are already being overwhelmed by invaders who are on top of the wall and by the large force surrounding and defending the siege engine itself.

##### Encounter
The siege engine is surrounded on the ground by merregon from the Legion of Tyranny. It has reached the wall, and started pounding against it, shaking stones loose. From the time the party arrives on the scene, it will take eight rounds for the ram for breach the wall.

The ram itself has been enchanted so that it works autonomously. A Dispel Magic spell will stop it, but after taking a turn to realize what is happening any four merregon adjacent can operate it manually and resume the attack. An angel from the Legion of Justice, who has arrived to help the efforts, hands one of the party an Orb which glows with inner fire, and tells them that it contains an enhanced Fireball spell. It should be strong enough to deal with the siege engine.

If the orb is used against the siege engine, it will destroy it instantly, otherwise it acts as a normal Fireball against creatures. If the Fireball Orb is not used, then other attacks are against the siege engine’s AC 16, 132 HP and +2 to all saves. It is immune to any spell effect which requires an Intelligence, Wisdom or Charisma saving throw, but has disadvantage on Dexterity saving throws.

Merregon surround the siege engine, and if killed will reinforce from the distant line. For the purpose of this encounter, the invaders outside the wall are essentially infinite. The invaders also have a siege tower pushed up against the wall and are climbing it to cover the wall with their soldiers. Defenders valiantly fight against them, but are being overwhelmed. The siege tower has AC 16 and +2 to all saves. It is immune to any spell effect which requires an Intelligence, Wisdom or Charisma saving throw, but has disadvantage on Dexterity saving throws. It has three levels, each with 130 hp. These can be destroyed separately, but destroying lower levels causes the above levels to collapse as well.

##### Success (-2 Legion of Tyranny)
Destroying the siege engine secures this area of the wall, and coming reinforcements for the defenders can help fight off further attacks. If the party are able to destroy the siege engine without using the Fireball Orb, then they can keep it for use later.

##### Failure (+2 Legion of Tyranny)
Failure causes the section of wall to come crashing down, giving the invaders a large opening through which to pour their full force into the city. If the party fail to stop the siege engine in time, move from this encounter to Hold The Breach.

### Scene 6: Hold The Breach

A large hole has been made in the city walls, and now the invading enemy are moving into the city directly. Defender reinforcements are coming, but the breach has to be held until a large enough force reaches the wall to hold the enemy back. The only ones there to hold that line are the party.

##### Encounter
The party must stand at the breach and keep the enemy force out, but they will send wave after wave of soldiers against them. An initial force of infantry represented as a unit of invaders have already built up by the wall and are ready to use the breach to enter the city.

On initiative 20 of each round, any slain soldiers are replaced with new ones who move into the engagement area from the reinforcement line. They may act normally from that turn, as though they had been standing just beyond it ready to act. Defender reinforcements will arrive to relieve the party at initiative 1 on the tenth round. They will move into the breach, and once they have formed a line of shields in the hole an officer will give the party the order to step back and let them take over. When the invaders reinforce at the start of round three, their number should now also include two leader creatures or a command group who give ability or spell support to their troops. When the invaders reinforce at the start of round six, instead of infantry the invaders will send upgraded brutes, more skilled fighters or cavalry. The invaders used at the start of this encounter should be weak, but numerous. As the encounter goes on they become stronger and stronger.

##### Success (-2 Legion of Tyranny)
Holding the line until more defenders arrive secures another section of the city wall, and likely gives the party a chance for some respite afterwards. A young cleric
accompanies these reinforcements, and is happy to provide some healing if the party need it. He utilizes the Lay On Hands ability, having 30 HP available to distribute amongst the party as wanted.

##### Failure (+2 Legion of Tyranny)
If invaders push through the party in decent numbers, then the section is lost and this area of the city will soon be reinforced as a beachhead for the enemy army. Such a beachhead may cost the city, as it will be extremely difficulty to remove the enemy once they strengthen their hold on the breach.

### Scene 7: The Infiltrator

Making their way down a street, the party hears shouts from a nearby alleyway. Investigating, they find a local guardsman holding five civilians at spearpoint. He is aggressively shouting at them, demanding they obey him, but all five civilians are fearfully holding their arms in the air. As the party arrive, the guardsman thanks the gods that they’ve arrived to help him. He claims that he witnessed a civilian killing other guards, but hadn’t seen their face. He’s convinced that it was a traitor helping the enemy, and chased them to this alley where the traitor has hidden amongst a group of other civilians. Things were so confusing that he can’t say for sure which of the five civilians was the one he was chasing, so he’s trapped them all and has been desperately trying to keep them from leaving and continuing to sabotage the defense of the city. The party must help to solve this puzzle and identify the traitor.

##### Encounter
The guardsman has secured five civilians, one of whom is an enemy infiltrator in disguise. The party must question them to work out which is the odd one out and can use whatever abilities or spells they have at their disposal to work it out. All have reasons to have heightened emotions, and all are fearful or the soldier, both because of his erratic behavior and out of fear of being caught. What can eventually give away the infiltrator is that they have not actually been in the city for very long. Although they have a good of layout, the infiltrator doesn’t know anyone here, nor any of the local stories, people or items of interest. They can easily be caught out by questioning them on local events (other than the siege).

##### Success (-1 Legion of Cruelty)
When the party identify the correct infiltrator, they attempt to escape. They know the game is up and try to flee, but do not have the strength to fight the party alone and can be defeated easily. The guardsman is thankful for the assistance, and returns to his duties.

##### Failure (+1 Legion of Cruelty)
If the party let the civilians go or identify the wrong one of them as the infiltrator, then the guardsman is convinced and the traitor escapes to wreck further havoc in the city.

### Scene 8: Shoot Down the Air Support

The Legion of Tyranny have sent new forces into the city, soldiers on the backs of large flying beasts transporting troops over the wall and firing at the defenders with bows and crossbows. They dive and swoop across the city now, picking off defenders and civilians alike and are now descending onto the party. Luckily, the adventurers have come close to a ballista emplacement atop a short tower in amongst a central square, giving them an opportunity to do something about the winged menaces threatening them.

##### Encounter
The party are in an open street area with a squat tower in the middle. On top of the tower, two ballista have been mounted for aerial defense, but the guardsmen who should be manning them have already been killed by raids from above. As soon as the party enters the square, the are attacked by the flying invaders. The invaders attack as a wave of air support, diving down onto the party with lethal intent. If they fall too easily, a second wave of the same creatures will come over the rooftops, these preferring hit and run tactics where they can. Either ballista can be used by any character using their own Ranged Attack Bonus. It has a range of 120/480 against a single target, but requires an entire action to load and ready to fire, and action to aim, and another to fire. A different character can ready the weapon, but the same character who aims must be the one to fire. On a hit, it deals 3d10 piercing damage.

##### Success (-1 Legion of Tyranny)
Shooting down the invader air support hampers their ability to spread their influence and to deliver troops and supplies anywhere they want in the city.

##### Failure (+1 Legion of Tyranny)
If the party are unable to deal with the flyers, then they will continue to harass the defenders from above. They can get assassins right into command structures, and get invader troops anywhere in the city. It will drastically increase the number of invaders within the city. With this advantage, the invaders may be able to kill the leaders of the defending force and continue scouting key targets and directing their forces at any point.

### Scene 9: Open the Secret Way

A young warrior stumbles into view, weary and in shock, but on mission. Behind him a small crowd of civilians gather, hiding around the corners of buildings until the warrior gestures for them to come forward. As the warrior catches sight of the party, he raises his sword toward them and shouts a challenge. He poses no threat and can be defeated easily, but if approached as a friend he will happily accept them and tell them his mission.

The warrior is no warrior at all, but the son of a local bartender who is missing. His father once told him of a secret way under the city walls - a tunnel that leads clear of the city and out into the wilderness. He is leading this small collection of civilians he has found to the tunnel so that they can escape. If the party help them get there, they can come too. If not, their help would be appreciated regardless. lead civilians to a secret tunnel to escape the city.

##### Encounter
The entrance to the secret passage is a few blocks away, disguised as a drain in an alley next to a tavern, but there is likely to be danger between here and there. Enemy forces are now moving about the city looking for anyone - soldier or civilian - to slaughter. The journey is straight forward enough, winding through streets and alleys until the party reach their destination, but they have roughly a dozen civilians with them who will not be incredibly stealthy.

The party should be presented with a map of the city streets, with the roads and alleys between buildings possibly forming a multi-path maze of sorts. The trick is for the party to find a route to bypass any enemy troops they encounter, or to defeat them, before those invaders discover the fleeing civilians and set upon them. In each case, invader units will be in stationary positions unless the party can find a way to move or distract them. Their Passive Perception (for the DC of all Dexterity (Stealth) checks) is 12. They will mainly block access routes through alleys and out onto main streets. Further, cavalry will move up and down each street regularly, starting at one end (either end) every 4+1d3 rounds and moving down the street at their full move (+dash) each turn.

Any invaders who see the party will immediately turn aggressive and attack, but if they are also aware of the civilian group, they have an even chance of attacking a member of that group rather than an army member of the party. The only exception to this would be if the invaders have been attacked or are within 5ft of a party member. Each civilian has the statistics of a Commoner, and more than likely to fall in a hit. The young warrior who had been leading them is slightly sturdier, and although he uses the same statistics should be given the same death saving throws that a player character would normally have, allowing the party a chance to save him if he falls.

Should the party reach the drain, they find it as a round manhole cover at the back of an alley. It is locked, but the young warrior can open it easily with a key he has kept on a rope around his neck. Without this key though, a party member will either need to pick the lock with a DC 20 Dexterity (Sleight Of Hand check, or rip the drain cover free with a DC 25 Strength check. Otherwise, the drain cover is made of metal, as so has AC 19, and 18 HP. Once the drain is opened a vertical shaft drops 80 feet with metal rungs embedded in the stone wall forming a ladder that leads down into tunnel. Though it resembles a sewer tunnel, this passage is actually separate from the city’s sewers and leads in a single straight line directly out of the city.

##### Success (+2 Legion of Freedom)
The civilians and young warrior are thankful for the escape route, and readily start descending into the dark tunnel. Many offer their thanks, but have so little to offer by way of a physical reward. The young warrior also has little, but can provide information on other dangers around the city, offering the party clues as to the next location where their help might be needed. Having opened the secret way, this also gives the party a means to escape the city. If they do not wish to take part in further siege events or to help resolve whatever other drama is occurring within the city walls, or if the party’s missions intends them to escape, then they can use this route to do so.

The route leads to the Destroyed Depths, as outlined in the main Vult adventure.

##### Failure (-1 Legion of Freedom)
If at least half of the civilians are killed, the others will panic and scatter into the city where it is likely that they will be picked off one by one. The young warrior is likely to try to chase some of them down to save them, but will not have much hope of surviving himself. If left alone, there is a chance that the party can follow what clues the warrior gave them to find the secret passage, but they do so knowing that the civilians they were escorting will die.

### Scene 10: Incoming!

The party make their way through the city’s streets, when a dark shadow forms overhead. Perhaps at first they think more aerial invaders are approaching, but as they look they realize its something worse - artillery! Perhaps the party see a hail of arrows blotting out the sky, or a rock hurled by a catapult or trebuchet, or perhaps a flaming rock, hurtling directly towards them. They have scant moments to find cover before the artillery hits.

##### Encounter
This entire encounter takes place over the time-frame of three combat turns. In the first, every member of the party (unless explicitly distracted) should be given a chance to make a DC 15 Wisdom (Perception check. Those who pass see a shadow form, or hear the ominous sounds of a fast moving object in flight. They look up, and see the large missile(s) flying through the air, and heading right toward them. Characters who passed the test have that first round to act.

In the second round, all characters will be aware of the danger and will have the chance to react, but they will be very aware that they have very little time to do anything. In the third turn, the missile(s) lands amongst them, and the party must act to actively resist. There are multiple different types of missile that could be landing, with a few examples given below. Each are based on spells with similar effects or descriptions, and you should feel free to come up with similar missile effects.
* **Hail of Arrows**: Like a downpour of rain, arrows fall on the street. For the space of three turns, every space in the street is subjected to the torrent, and must make a DC18 Dexterity save for each of those turns, taking 1d6 piercing damage for each failed save. The arrows will always come from one particular direction, allowing characters to gain the benefit of cover if they find any in the street, but each piece of cover will only work for the 5ft directly behind it (from the angle of the arrows, which should come from the city walls).
* **Catapulted Boulder:** A single large rock falls on a 10ftx10ft space in the middle of the street. The exact position should be discernable by the players from the second combat turn after they notice that it is coming, giving them a chance to get out of the way, but if character is till in that 10ftx10ft area or within 5ft of it, then when the rock lands they must make a DC18 Dexterity save. Those who fail the save take 2d10 bludgeoning damage, and are knocked prone. Those directly under the rock may find themselves stunned and restrained as the boulder pins them down. This effect can be made more difficult for the party by having multiple boulders launched from multiple catapults land in the same street area at once. Some of these may land on buildings, causing rubble to fall down (enlarging the effect area) and make the indoors a more dangerous option instead of an obvious place of safety.
* **Flaming Rock**: A massive ball of fire soars through the sky and bears down on the street where the party currently are. As it approaches, the party realize that it will land and spread out in a wave of fire. Choose a single point in the street, which the party will be able to work out from the second round after first realizing that it is coming. When the ball of fire hits, every character within a 50ft radius must make a DC18 Dexterity save. Those who fail take 6d6 fire damage, with those who pass taking half damage. Anything flammable within range has a good chance of being set alight.

As with regular rules, half cover grants +2 to Dexterity saves, three-quarters cover gives +5, and total cover grants an automatic success to the save. Where multiple missiles are incoming, you might want to consider larger objects like boulders destroying pieces of cover, forcing characters to move to find new cover. This encounter could occur multiple times in different locations, perhaps even whilst the party are engaged in battle with invader forces.

##### Success
Surviving the artillery hit allows the party to move on and continue their current mission.

##### Failure
Taking serious damage could result in the party being unable to continue fighting, and forcing hem to withdraw to a place of safety. As such, their current mission may be failed giving the invaders an opportunity to spread further into the city. They might even feel the need to get out of the city at this point, in which this might be a good time for them to encounter the Open The Secret Way event.

### Scene 11: Kill the Commander

A tremendous opportunity presents itself for the party to deal a deadly blow to the invader’s assault. The Commander of the Legion of Cruelty, who has been secretly controlling the city from the inside, has a command post set up in a nearby market square, and the party are in a prime position to attack them. If they can kill the Commander, they limit the impact of the Legion of Cruelty inside the city, and can slow the progress of the invasion. Making their way to the edge of the square, they see that the Commander is well defended, and will take some effort to combat.

##### Encounter
This event can serve as the finale to the party’s defence of the city, at the very least the death of the Commander could be enough to drive the invaders back for the day, though tomorrow is another story.

As the party survey the scene, they see two units of invaders arrayed in the closer corners of the square keeping an eye on the streets leading into the white square, whilst the Captain themselves and their personal bodyguard stand in the center of the square looking over a collection of maps laid out on a tale, forming a command group. Each group of invaders can be fought separately, but there will be no time to rest between each. From the moment the first unit sees the party, they will attack with whatever ranged weapons they have available, whilst the other groups prepare to defend themselves. The first unit will then brace themselves for a close quarters fight.

After the first unit has been defeated, the second will immediately start moving toward the party intending to charge. They will not move before this point unless a character attacks them first. if attacked, they will move to attack in the following combat round.

The Commander and their bodyguards in the command group will watch on as the units fight to defend the square, but will prepare for a fight. They will wait their turn however, unless they are directly attacked first. Once they are directly engaged however, the command group will fight to the death.

##### Success (-3 Legion of Cruelty, -3 Legion of Freedom)
Defeating the Commander and their command group should be enough to cause serious disruption to the command structure of the Legion of Cruely inside the city, and can cause a temporary withdrawal. Given that the invaders are already in the city, they will most likely retreat to the city walls where they can consolidate their position for the day and await a new Commander to join them from the rest of the army still outside the wall. If the party have been particularly successful in their efforts, this may force the invaders out of the walls entirely and allow the gates to be closed again, and breaches in the wall to be barricaded. This will give the party and the city’s own guards a chance to catch their breath and take a decent rest, though it is not likely to be the end of the siege. A greater army outside the wall will still need dealing with in more direct or creative ways.

##### Failure (+3 Legion of Cruelty, -3 Legion of Freedom)
Being defeated by the Commander will result in a sore loss for the party and the city. Successful defending themselves gives the Commander a boost in confidence, and so they call forward more troops to press their advantage and surge further into the city. Though they may be killed, the Commander may take the attempt on their life as a grave insult and instead choose to take the party captive. Their gear will be taken and the party will be restrained somewhere in the city where they can have a good view of the invaders taking over entirely. This might mean stakes or posts in a square, or high on the city wall.

### Conclusion

The Legion Standing of the City of Knives should be tracked after each Scene in order to determine the balance of power in the city. At the end, the Legion holding the city will be the one with the largest Legion Standing.

### References

* From Break the Siege by Stephen Bull