#adventure [[Vult (Shavarath)]] [[Destruction]]

> This moon has countless battlefields, each one reflecting a different struggle. There’s a vicious guerilla war in a shadowy forest. There's a mighty fortress that’s always under siege; occasionally, the attackers tear it away from the defenders, at which point the former defenders begin the siege anew. Various legions appear to have command centers or headquarters dotted around the moon, on the land, in the water, and in the sky.

In Shavarath, angels and devils are locked in endless conflict. Radiant blades spill burning blood, and bolts of force smash angels from the sky. The war began at the moment of creation, and it will continue to the end of time. Its primary combatants are immortal, and fallen soldiers return within a day or so. The forces are so evenly matched that a decisive victory is impossible. To outsiders, this war seems pointless. Over the last four hundred years of conflict in Nullius Terram, the Legion of Justice has advanced its front line by perhaps 20 feet. Mortals may look at this and ask, “Why continue to fight? Why not just leave the struggle and do something—anything — else?” In particular, it’s common for mortals to see the vast resources the celestials devote to the war and protest, “Why don’t you help us? You claim to be the Legion of Justice, but innocent people are dying in Thaliost while you fight this meaningless war!” The angel isn’t fighting for a single nation, and this war isn’t driven by gold or politics. The immortals of Shavarath believe that their war is reflected across every reality. Justice. Tyranny. Cruelty. The war in Shavarath is a visible symbol of the balance of power between these forces, and when it shifts in Shavarath, the immortals believe it shifts everywhere.

One concept could be that Destruction is missing because he's been magically trapped inside his sword somehow. A quest could be to find the sword, and either free Destruction somehow or to take the sword on as a cursed item.

### **Nullius Terram**

One of the largest layers, Nullius Terram is a battlefield the size of a small nation. It’s divided by several deep, heavily fortified trenches, which are separated by blasted regions of scorched earth, blast craters, and bones. Nullius Terram’s multiple trench lines twist and curve throughout the region, and in the lands between the trenches lie strategic outposts.

The region is marked by constant barrages and terrible tools of mass destruction — widescale cloudkill, curses that transform conscripts into killers, and worse.
Tyranny, Cruelty, and Justice are the three active legions in this region. Justice has a difficult position in Nullius Terram, but has been slowly gaining strength. Periodically, the commanders send troops to clash in the fields between the lines, either in simple skirmishes or full offensives. Ultimately, the theme of this layer is that of slow, agonizing stalemate, and the suffering war can inflict on both the land and the soldiers.

Legion of Justice (Angels) - Lord Commander Ambriel - Blue flags
Legion of Freedom (Archons) - Lord Commander Terxyx - Green flags
Legion of Tyranny (Devils) - Lord Commander Astaralax - Yellow flags
Legion of Cruelty (Demons) - Lord Commander Eltab - Red flags

### **The Burning Sky**

The sky is filled with many airships, some large enough to be floating towns. A few islands of rock float amongst the solid clouds, but if there’s any land below, it’s hidden by deadly fog. While there are skirmishes on the stone islands, most of the action occurs in the skies. Winged angels and fiends circle and duel, while conscripts guide dragons and other aerial mounts.

### **The City of Knives**

It looks like this was once a city of marvels, with towers rivaling those of Sharn, gilded monuments, museums, gardens, and more. But the City of Knives lies between vast armies of the Legions, and it represents the impact of brutal war on a glorious city. Ongoing bombardment is a constant threat. The civilian conscripts are fighting their own war for shelter and supplies; some rally together for the common good, while others have become looters and brigands. Justice and Tyranny hold their positions on either side of the city, relying on bombardment and occasional assaults. The Legion of Cruelty spreads terror within the city, while the celestials of the Legion of Freedom seek to rally the common people against all enemies.

[[12. Break the Siege]]

### **The Bloody Sea**

There are no continents in this aquatic layer, but a handful of islands support the warring fleets. Grand and powerful warships clash in the open waters and bombard settlements. The ships may be familiar, but there are many other unusual engines of war: constructed krakens, submersible warships, monstrosities and dragons bound to service — wonders that the people of Eberron can imagine but can’t yet create. The pirate queen Lhazaar surely has inspired a sword wraith in the Bloody Sea... but which legion does her sword wraith fight for?

### **The Warring Cities**

At first glance, this layer looks like the blasted land between the trenches of Nullius Terram. It’s home to a number of warring cities, but they aren’t static settlements. Rather, some are floating fortresses that dwarf the Argonth of Breland, and others walk on two legs. The warforged colossus in Eberron: Rising from the Last War could be used as a model for a small fortress.

### References

* Use Scene 5 from the Convergence Manifesto Adventure AE01-11: A Heart in Mourning?
* Use the "Break the Siege" adventure.