#adventure #completed  [[Olarune (Lamannia)]]

### Background

[[2. Olarune, The Sentinel]]

This is a research and mining station built during the Age of Giants by a faction called the Group of Eleven that is known to have fought the Quori during the invasion. The station has been overwhelmed, abandoned and reclaimed by the plane. In the past, the giants used the facility to mine and research the prismatic geodes, shards, and golems that are native to Lamannia.

Magical crystalline devices can be found throughout the facility that utilize giant magitech to revert the facility back to its former glory (think Timeshift Stones from Skyward Sword). The players are not able to directly interact with things, but can observe their surroundings (which could be helpful for solving puzzles and getting hints).

### Synopsis

- The players enter an ancient mining facility that was clearly once run by giants, as indicated by the giant bones and the giant statue guarding the entryway chamber.
- They will soon discover that they can use arcane devices from the giants to shift the environment around then to reflect the past instead of the present. They can’t interact with things here, but can gather information in this form, as long as they’re not spotted.
- A research library includes some information about the operations here in the past, including the source of elemental binding from “prismatic beings”.
- Hidden treasure and dangerous shifting sands can be found in what was once a processing chamber for the mine.
- The central mining chamber itself houses one of the prismatic beings, a golem which has been buried in rock for unknown millennia. If the players can defeat its prismatic shards, then they can escape with a powerful prismatic geode, and even re-activate the doors in the facility in order to make their escape easier.

### Scene 1: Entryway and Titan’s Trap

> There’s a shadow looming over you as you enter this space, its source the absolutely towering statue of an armored giant standing nearly 50 ft. high. In one hand it carries a greatclub and in the other a flaming torch. Its eyes, staring out from beneath an open helm, seem transfixed on the doorway, but as you move you get the sense that they are tracking your movement. Beyond this statue, on the opposite wall, is what appears to be an exit.

An ode to the giants from another age, this carefully crafted statue is also an elaborate defense mechanism, forcing any who enter this area to dodge, duck or dive out of its dangerous mechanical motions. Each time a creature ends its turn on a tile in this space, roll on the Titan’s Trap table.

Looking around the room, a DC 12 Investigation check reveals a magical crystalline device behind the giant statue. It is etched with arcane glyphs and glows with a dim blue light (that would remind the group of the giant colossus they entered in Xen’drik). If the device is touched in any way, then whoever touches it flashes back to a time before (see The Past below).

**The Past**. If any player interacts with the device, then they see the room as it was tens of thousands of years ago. Ask for a Perception check and reveal what they see as they float incorporeally around the room:
- DC 12: Two giant guards can be seen patrolling the room, who are dressed similarly to the statue.
- DC 15: The statue’s torch is not lit. You also notice that the exit door is open.
- DC 18: The statue’s helm faceplate is down over its eyes, and it doesn’t seem to reach when the guards get near.

The device is present here as well, but it’s glowing a dim red (instead of blue). Touching it again will send the player back to their time. Anyone in this time needs to roll a DC 15 Stealth check in order to not be noticed by the guards, who are able to see their incorporeal forms. If the check fails, then a guard touches the device and they return to their time.

**The Statue**. The statue can be deactivated by climbing it and pulling down the faceplate of its helm, requiring a DC 15 Strength (Athletics) check.

**Exit Door.** The exit door on the far north side of the room is locked and cannot be picked. It is made of stone too thick to knock down, but will open if the statue’s torch is extinguished.

`dice: [[2. Titan’s Folly#^titan-trap]]`

| 1d4 | The Titan… |
| --- | --- |
| 1 | …swings its torch down. A creature targeted by the torch swing must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or suffer 11 (3d6) fire damage, or half as much on a success. |
| 2 | …swings its club down. A creature targeted by this club must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or suffer 11 (2d10) bludgeoning damage and fall prone. |
| 3 | …steps and stomps. A creature targeted by this stomp must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or suffer 10 (4d4) bludgeoning damage. Whether or not the creature succeeds, each tile within 5 ft. of the targeted creature is difficult terrain as the stomp dislodges tiles and rock. |
| 4 | …stares with its stunning gaze. A creature targeted by the titan’s gaze must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or is stunned for one minute. The creature can repeat this saving throw at the end of each of their turns, ending the effect on a success. This save takes place before any relevant roll on the Titan’s Trap table for that creature. A stunned creature returns to consciousness if they take damage. |
^titan-trap

### Scene 2: Central Hallway

A track (for a minecart) can be seen running through this central hallway, which is north of the entry with the Titan’s Trap (Scene 1), between the Mining Chamber (to the north, Scene 5) and the Processing Chamber (to the east, Scene 4). There is no minecart in sight though, and both doors to the east and north are closed. There is one open door to the west that leads to the Research Library (Scene 3).

The trick here is to return to the entryway (Scene 1) and use the device to return to the past. If the players had done that previously and investigated this room (after succeeding on their Stealth check) as well, they would also have seen this.

**The Past**. In their incorporeal form, any player(s) returning to the past can see a minecart inscribed with arcane runes and glowing blue floating over the tracks on its own. It automatically moves along the tracks between the Mining and Processing Chambers, and the door to each opens automatically when it gets near. The players will need to slip in with the minecart, succeeding in a DC 15 Dexterity check, in order to enter either of these chambers.

### Scene 3: Research Library

The Research Library from the old facility is very run down, but a few of the books can still be read. Some additional information can be gathered by returning to the past. An Investigation check while in the present can reveal a few things:
- DC 12: A book with a title (*Arcane Engineering*) written in giant that outlines the functionality of the devices:
    - The devices are eldritch machines that are tied to Lamannia, creating a reflexive relationship that allows them to shift time locally.
    - They’re activated by touch, and work in both directions, with blue meaning you’re in your own time and red meaning you’re in the past.
    - The giants would sometimes use them to escape attacks by local creatures, but they weren’t always enough.
- DC 15: A journal from one of the researchers that outlines some of the events of the past:
    - During the Age of Giants, the Cul’sir Dominion set up a research station and mining camp in Lamannia.
    - They hoped to harness the elemental power of the plane, and quickly discovered prismatic beings which essentially bound elemental power naturally. The journal contains some notes about performing a similar feat using materials native to Eberron…. (allusion to elemental binding tech they eventually perfected, which was then obtained by the gnomes as well)
    - After a decade struggling against megafauna attacks and elemental-enhanced weather, the outpost was finally overwhelmed and abandoned.

**The Past**. A Perception check while in the past will reveal a few things:
- DC 15: Several giants are seen reading books, too engrossed to notice any wandering spirits. One giant can be seen furiously scribbling in a journal.
- DC 18: In the other room, a minecart can be seen floating along the tracks, then disappearing through a door that opened automatically when it got near.

### Scene 4: Processing Chamber

Right inside the Processing Chamber is a device that will allow any players to return to their time.

This room is filled with shifting sand, and contains several scattered platforms at heights of 15, 20, and 30 ft. that predate much of the other architecture in this space, as well as a few large support pillars that run floor to ceiling, and plateau-like outcroppings that are roughly 5 feet higher than the sand.

**Shifting Sands**. The sand in this room can rise or fall on a whim. At the top of each round of initiative, roll 1d20. On a 10 or less, the sand falls, and on an 11 or greater it rises - with the last number on the die representing the number of feet it changes (for example, a 5 would mean falling 5 feet and a 20 would mean rising 10 feet). If a creature is in the sand as it rises, they are somewhat lifted by the sand, but will start sinking at the normal rate on the next round.

**Quicksand**. Those entering quicksand initially sink 1d4+1 feet. At the beginning of each turn after sinking into quicksand, the creature sinks another 1d4 feet. Provided the creature is not completely submerged, they can escape from the quicksand on a successful Strength check. The Strength check has a base DC of 10, then increases by 1 for each foot the creature has sunk. If the creature has sunk 5 feet, the DC of the Strength check would be 15. If another creature is assisting the creature out of the quicksand, the base DC for the Strength check is 5 and increases in the same manner mentioned previously — for each foot sunk, the DC increases by 1.

**The Past**. In the past, this chamber was not filled with quicksand. Instead it contains processing equipment for materials coming from the other room, and the minecart track can be clearly seen coming from the west entrance, going down to the floor of the chamber, and exiting to the south into a tunnel specifically for the minecart (going to an unknown location). A staircase can be seen going up the west wall alongside the minecart tracks, and out of the room (leading to the Mining Chamber). Another small hallway can be seen branching off the north wall at the floor of the chamber, beyond which lies a small room filled with various gems.

**Treasure**. If the party can come up with a way to get to the chamber on the north wall in the present, then they find the hoard of gems. Use a CR 11-16 Treasure Hoard generator and re-roll anything that’s not gems. Also include a single Prismatic Shard item on a successful DC 18 Investigation check.
* [https://dungeonmastertools.github.io/treasure.html#hoard16](https://dungeonmastertools.github.io/treasure.html#hoard16)

### Scene 5: Mining Chamber

Right inside the Mining Chamber is a device that will allow any players to return to their time.

The center of the dungeon houses a partially excavated prismatic golem that’s been stuck in a rock face for quite some time. It can send out prismatic shards to do its bidding, and cast spells through them if needed, but is unable to move or interact directly with the characters. When the players enter the room in the present, Prismatic Shards fly off of the golem and engage them in battle.

`encounter: 1d3+1: Prismatic Shard`
`encounter: 1: Prismatic Golem`

**The Past**. A group of giants can be seen excavating a prismatic golem from the rock face, while at the same time loading any large rocks they dislodge into a minecart which automatically moves from the rock face along its track into the Processing Chamber. The players can’t interact with anything, but it would be clear to them that the giants didn’t finish their job and the prismatic golem is still partially buried.

**Treasure**. If the party manages to take out its prismatic shards, the prismatic golem completely inactivates and opens up to reveal a [[Prismatic Geode]] for the taking.

### Conclusion

After the prismatic shards are defeated, and the prismatic geode is retrieved, a secondary device can be found in this room near the golem. This device appears similar to the other “timeshift” devices, but is glowing faint red, and has a slot which would perfectly house a prismatic shard (DC 12 Investigation). If one is added (killed from the previous battle or found elsewhere like in the processing chamber treasure room) then the device activates, which returns power to the facility and opens all the doors.

### Random Encounters

These encounters are optional if the players dilly-dally too much in this area, then animals can attack.

`dice: [[2. Titan’s Folly#^random-titans-folly]]`

| d8 | Random Encounter |
| --- | --- |
| 1 | `encounter: 1d4: Giant Spider` |
| 2 | `encounter: 1: Swarm of Poisonous Snakes` |
| 3 | `encounter: 1: Stegosaurus` |
| 4 | `encounter: 1: Air Elemental` |
| 5 | `encounter: 1: Earth Elemental` |
| 6 | `encounter: 1: Giant Skeleton` |
| 7 | `encounter: 1: Tyrannosaurus Rex` |
| 8 | `encounter: 1: Cloud Giant Ghost` |
^random-titans-folly

### References

The Titan’s Trap (page 161) and The Sand Pit (page 187) in The Game Master’s Book of Traps, Puzzles and Dungeons

Skyward Sword’s Lanayru Desert