#adventure [[Therendor (Syrania)]] [[Throne of Life]] [[Vyrael]] [[Castiel]]

> Your ship flies through an endless expanse of perfect blue skies, stretching off into the horizon. There’s no sign of the sun, but the sky is clear and bright, and floating crystal towers gleam as if caught in a sunbeam. A warm, gentle breeze brushes over you, and there’s a faint sound of distant chimes. You feel absolutely calm; in this moment, all anger melts away.
> Large floating towers dot the skyline, with winged creatures clearly seen flying between them. But the distant cities are much less interesting than what’s right below you - the largest market you’ve ever seen in your life. As your ship slowly descents to land on a designated cloud, you see a golden pedestal is the only prominent feature in the immediate area.

The golden pedestal has on top of it a nine-cornered gold coin which is blank on both sides. Engravings on the pedestal, written in Celestial, clearly instruct visitors to flip the coin, and given the “Universal Understanding” principle of the plane, all players know they can somehow read it. If they flip it, then have them roll a straight d20 (luck roll), with the result determining how the coin lands, along with the symbol on and the power of the coin.

`dice: 1d20`

| d20 | Landing Face and Symbol | Power |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 1, 20 | Lands on its side, remains blank | Players have advantage on Persuasion checks against haggling in the Invention District of the Immeasurable Market, and disadvantage in other districts |
| 2-10 | Heads, Octogram | Players have advantage on Persuasion checks against haggling in the Commerce District of the Immeasurable Market, and disadvantage in other districts |
| 11-19 | Tails, Crossed hammer and tongs | Players have advantage on Persuasion checks against haggling in the Force District of the Immeasurable Market, and disadvantage in other district |
^golden-pedestal

### **The Immeasurable Market**

> You look out across a market that appears to never end, with stalls composed of everything from temporary stands and tents to permanent stone structures. You can see customers and merchants from across the planes, including the Material Plane. To one side, a slaadi haggles with a modron over the price of hippogriff eggs; to the other, a sly dao shows a Shavaran balor a selection of Fernia-forged blades. It’s said that anything you can imagine— and many things you can’t— can be found in the Immeasurable Market.

The Immeasureable Market is divided into three districts - each of which dedicated to one of the Nine Plus Six. The Forge District is dedicated to Onatar and contains blacksmiths and armorers. The Invention District is dedicated to Kol Turrant and contains artifiers and magic shops. The Commerce district is dedicated to Kol Korran and contains any shops and money traders that don’t fit in the other districts.

When the players arrive and start looking around for a shop, roll on the table below for a random merchant. Alternatively, if they’re looking for a particular service you can just have them find it.

`dice: [[3. Therendor, The Healer's Moon#^merchants]]`

| d8 | Immeasurable Merchant | District |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | The Last Resort is a tavern where angels and devils drink together, where fey share stories while slaadi do shots. The barkeep Solace is the Dominion of Hospitality; he’s got a sympathetic ear for patrons and knows the perfect drink for any occasion. | Commerce |
| 2 | Jabra the night hag is an alchemist of exceptional skill. She bottles stolen dreams and nightmares, and sells unique potions with remarkable powers. She peddles her goods from an eye-catching tent of red dragonhide, and when she’s not in the Market, she can often be found selling her goods in Graywall. | Invention |
| 3 | Sar Saeran the dao is the finest weaponsmith in Fernia. Sometimes he has goods for sale, but he also comes to the Market to discuss commissions. | Forge |
| 4 | Mazalene is the Dominion of Rumors, and she only trades in kind. Anyone who has a particularly interesting story to share with her can get an intriguing—and possibly true— tale from this angel. | Invention |
| 5 | The Hoard is the storefront of the ancient gold dragon Halazaryx, who settled in Syrania after some differences of opinion with the Conclave of Argonnessen. Hal has a collection of interesting relics tied to historical figures in Khorvaire, and is always interested in trading for items that have fascinating stories. | Commerce |
| 6 | Lady Ash is a githyanki merchant who sells the plunder claimed by her city-ship, Zaeran’s Sword. Her goods depend on the Sword’s most recent target. | Forge |
| 7 | Bor’ob is a slaadi merchant specializing in extradimensional spaces: bags of holding, handy haversacks, and the like. He’s usually a gray slaad, but it varies from week to week. | Commerce |
| 8 | Slade is the Dominion of Music. They craft and play magical instruments, and may be willing to sell an instrument, a song, or a performance. | Invention |
^merchants

For each market, optionally roll on the table below to determine the type of currency they accept. 

`dice: [[3. Therendor, The Healer's Moon#^currencies]]`

| d8 | Immeasurable Currency |
| --- | --- |
| 1 | Angel Tears. These translucent coins are one of the only active currencies in the Immeasurable Market. They’re produced by the Throne of Commerce and honored by most dominions and virtues. For simplicity’s sake, they could be assigned a value in gold pieces, so a Dominion might pay adventurers 100 gp in angel tears for a minor service. These are useful when you want to buy a drink at the tavern without selling your soul. |
| 2 | Dragonshards. Dragonshards are unique to Eberron, and there are merchants who take a great interest in them— especially Khyber dragonshards, which can be used to bind spirits. |
| 3 | Luck. Some merchants literally let you spend your fortune. Luck is measured in “dice.” Each die you spend allows the DM to give you disadvantage on a future d20 roll of their choosing. So if you spend five dice to acquire an item, that’s five difficult rolls in your future. |
| 4 | Trade Goods. Many merchants are primarily interested in things they can resell. What’s valuable to an immortal may not seem valuable to a mortal; an item that is unique or has emotional significance may have value to an Immeasurable merchant even if it doesn’t do anything. So it’s possible a treasured trinket holds more trade value than a legendary magic item. |
| 5 | Odd Organs. Some merchants like to deal in the body parts of unusual creatures—unicorn horns, a dragon’s heart, a demon’s eye. They may be willing to sell something on the promise of future delivery, but there’s usually a fixed time to complete the transaction. |
| 6 | Services. Merchants may well barter goods in exchange for a promise of service, either immediately or to be performed in the future. Remember that oaths sworn in the Market carry great weight; those who break a vow can end up facing a tribunal in Daanvi. |
| 7 | A Song. This doesn’t have to literally be a song, but there are merchants who trade goods in exchange for a performance of some sort. Usually this is about quality; they’ll sell you the dagger for a song, but it needs to be an epic performance. Can you succeed on a DC 20 Charisma (Performance) check? |
| 8 | A Soul. These aren’t a common form of currency, but some immortals trade in souls . . . if not your own, this is usually about promising to kill someone! A soul traded in this way becomes the possession of the immortal upon death instead of it going to Dolurrh; this eliminates any possibility of resurrection unless the soul is reclaimed. |
^currencies

To determine the stock at a particular shop, roll on the tables in the [[Trinkets of the Planes]] item - either several from a few random planes, or several from one particular plane if appropriate for the shop. These can be added to DMG traditional shop items if desired.

### **The University**

> A group of various multi-colored crystal spires make up what’s known on Syrania simply as The University. Each spire seems clearly decorated in accordance with a domain of study, from a beautiful hanging garden to a vast open library.

When the players first arrive at The University, they are approached by a 9 foot tall impossibly beautiful angel called the Throne of Life. Thrones have no name, and only go by their title, but this particular Throne is essentially an ancestor to Onme, and would immediately recognize her aasimar power as being derived from Syrania. The Throne can show the players around The University and introduce each of the crystal towers and the Domains.

The Throne of Knowledge maintains the University of Syrania, where chosen students can study an astonishing array of subjects. The catch is that students need to be admitted... and there isn’t actually a process for applying. At the moment, the University only has twenty students, chosen from across the planes by roaming virtues.

For planar travelers who come to Syrania, the University is a good repository of general knowledge; if the scholarly virtues can’t help, they’ll likely know the way to a dominion that can.

##### Locations

**Celestial Cafe**: This coffee shop, located near the Hall of Knowledge, is composed of tables that float among the clouds of the Azure Sky. Angel students can often be found studying and sipping beverages here.

**Hall of Knowledge**: This transparent crystalline central tower is both the primary library of The University, as well as the administrative building. It includes the office of the Throne of Knowledge, who runs The University.

**Auditorium of Arcana** The violet crystalline tower for the domain of Arcana is segmented into multi-colored classrooms for each school of magic and elemental type, all surrounding a large auditorium that's a communal spot to practice and discuss all types of magic.

**Amphitheater of Art**: The orange crystalline tower for the domain of Art is both an expansive gallery for all types of art, as well as an expansive amphitheater surrounding the tower that's used for all matter of orratory and theater.

**College of Commerce**: This blue crystalline tower for the domain of Commerce is located closest to the Immeasurable Market, where students frequent to either work or learn.

**Lectuary of Life and Death**: The yellow crystalline tower for the domain of Life and the indigo crystalline tower for the domain of Death are located right next to each other, and are treated almost as a single unit by the students and staff of The University. Here the dichotomy of life and death is discussed endlessly.

**Nursery of Nature**: The green crystalline tower for the domain of Nature is a beautiful hanging garden, with plants from all over the planes.

**Warren of War**: This cluster of smaller, tightly grouped red crystalline towers serves as home to the domain of War. Outdoor spaces between the towers (which serve primarily as living space) are used to practice military technique.

##### Syranian Domains
Each virtue, dominion, and throne is dedicated to contemplation and mastery of a domain. Here are some example domains, along with skills and spells that any dominion or throne dedicated to it would likely have; virtues might also be able to cast a couple spells from their associated domain.

**Arcana**. At will: detect magic, identify, magic missile. 3/day: dispel magic, magic circle, Nystul’s magic aura, remove curse. 1/day: antimagic field, planar binding, teleportation circle. Skills: Arcana.

**Art**. At will: minor illusion, phantasmal force. 3/day: enthrall, programmed illusion, seeming, suggestion. 1/day: mass suggestion, Otto’s irresistible dance, project image. Skills: Performance, tool or instrument proficiency.

**Commerce**. At will: charm person, comprehend languages, detect thoughts. 3/day: dominate person, fabricate, sending, telepathic bond. 1/day: creation, glibness, mind blank. Skills: Insight, Persuasion.

**Death**. At will: ray of sickness, speak with dead. 3/day: animate dead, blight, death ward, vampiric touch. 1/day: antilife shell, cloudkill, finger of death. Skills: Medicine.

**Knowledge**. At will: augury, command, identify. 3/day: confusion, legend lore, scrying, true seeing. 1/day: commune, feeblemind, foresight. Skills: History.

**Life**. At will: cure wounds, spare the dying. 3/day: beacon of hope, death ward, greater restoration, revivify. 1/day: heal, mass cure wounds, raise dead. Skills: Medicine.

**Nature**. At will: animal friendship, druidcraft, speak with animals. 3/day: commune with nature, dominate beast, grasping vine, plant growth. 1/day: animal shapes, control weather, insect plague. Skills: Nature, Survival.

**War**. At will: magic weapon, shield of faith. 3/day: banishing smite, crusader’s mantle, freedom of movement, spiritual weapon, warding bond. 1/day: blade barrier, holy aura. Skills: Medicine.

### **Solar City**

> The city of the angels is composed of floating towers which have comparatively few inhabitants— not so few that they feel desolate or barren, just enough so that it always feels slow and peaceful. A floating portal can barely be seen in the distance of the city, guarded by an angel.

The city of the angels is composed of floating towers and is ruled over by the most powerful type of angel known as a Solar, who goes by Castiel. These towers have comparatively few inhabitants— not so few that they feel desolate or barren, just enough so that it always feels slow and peaceful.

A permanent gate to Sharn is present in Solar City as well, and it’s guarded by a group called The Burning Host. Vyrael, the Ashen Sword, Eighth among the Burning Host of Syrania, is stationed as the guardian of this portal.
* When angels of Syrania become corrupted, they are cast out by their brethren, ripped of their wings and sent to the Material Plane. These angels are now radiant idols, and often serve the cause of evil.