#adventure [[Eyre (Fernia)]] [[Ashe]] [[Azhalar]] [[Brass]] [[Phlain]] [[Naja Ash]] [[Raqashtar]] [[Sar Saeran]] [[Shashraqa]]

> A massive shard of basalt rises out of a vast ocean of magma. A castle sprawls atop the peak, a glittered fortress sculpted from brass. Firefalls of lava tumble down the edge of the spire. A flight of red dragons takes to the air, circling the castle and creating a dazzling spectacle of synchronized flames.
> While the castle is most prominent as you look over the Sea of Flames, it’s far from the only thing you see. Smaller estates dot islands around the largest city just south of the castle. Various other islands dotting the Sea include large industrial machines, flaming forests, and even a pleasant looking inn.

The ship sets down in dock jutting out into lava at the edge of the city. If they go north, they can get to the City of Brass and the castle at its center. If they go any other direction, they can explore the islands in the Sea of Fire. Either way, be sure they meet Phlain as early as possible.

### **The City of Brass**

> You arrive at a metropolitan city, a place of marvels.  Here, a towering statue of an efreeti holds a sphere of continual flame the size of an airship. A variety of mansions dot the city, and fiery salamanders and dwarf-like creatures can be seen entering and exiting. The streets are filled with mephits, salamanders, and the occasional elemental, but there’s not another humanoid in sight. Circles made of flame and inscribed with Ignan symbols ring the city, and north of the city is the great castle seen from the skies.

If the players arrive in the City of Brass and haven’t met Phlain, have him appear first.

### The Sea of Fire

#### Efreeti Estates

> Each of the noble efreet have a sprawling palace or mansion on an island in the Sea of Fire. While not so grand as the City of Brass, these estates are studies in opulence, filled with dao-crafted wonders and sculptures of metal and flame.

If the players arrive at the Efreeti Estates and haven’t met Phlain, have him appear first.

#### Foundries

Foundry islands are models of industry. Some are focused primarily on physical engineering, with vast gears and wheels slowly turning, and chains rising and falling. Others reflect arcane industry, with blazing glyphs and fields of shimmering energy. Under the foundries, tunnels extend down below the Sea of Fire into the earth below.

#### Deep Halls

Under the foundries, tunnels extend down below the Sea of Fire into the earth below. These are the domains of the dao. Like the foundries above them, each has a distinct style tied to the sensibilities of the dao who dwells there. Streams of lava and pools of fire run through the halls, along with veins of metal and minerals. While not as luxurious as the estates of the efreeti, these often showcase the wondrous creations of the dao in residence; adventurers could find a hall whose walls are decorated with a thousand swords, or a brass garden filled with cunning construct songbirds. But some dao are paranoid, and deep halls can also contain a host of powerful and deadly traps.

#### The Charred City

> This inferno is a burning city, where devils direct bombardment and demons dance about, spreading the flames within.

Many of the random islands dotted throughout the Sea of Fire don’t have much of interest on them, like this one.

#### The Flaming Forest

> This inferno contains a lone balor overseeing the devastation of an ancient forest. These fires never end; parts of the layer are rebuilt even as others are consumed, and the inferno continues forever.

Many of the random islands dotted throughout the Sea of Fire don’t have much of interest on them, like this one.

#### Field of Firepeppers

An island off of The Flaming Forest houses a manifest zone to the The Volcanic Fields of Xen'drik, and a large number of Fernian Firepepper plants.

Firepepper is a rare plant found in Xen'drik. It is native only to the burning plains linked to the plane of Fernia. Coveted by chefs and gourmands across Khorvaire, firepeppers are sought for their intense flavor and heat. Just one firepepper could be sold for up to 10 gp in Sharn.

#### The Lonely Campfire

> This island in the Sea of Fire is a forested clearing with a single campfire, a lonely light out in the darkest wilderness.

Many of the random islands dotted throughout the Sea of Fire don’t have much of interest on them, like this one.

#### The First Hearth

This campfire island is an inn called the First Hearth, where the angelic barkeep Ashe offers warm drinks around the fireplace from which the inn takes its name. Campfire layers are safe havens, and a perfect place for travelers to rest.

If the players arrive at the First Hearth and haven’t met Phlain, have him appear first.

### **Meeting Phlain**

> Close to you, a voice comes quickly into focus. A deep, rolling voice that sounds like a burning bonfire. You turn around, and come face to face with a muscular man made of fire. A smile spreads across his face and a smaller creature with blue skin and fiery red hair steps out from behind him. “Hello old friends. Welcome to my home.”

The Efreeti is Phlain, one of Bystan’s fathers. And the other individual is Bystan, who has found his father and settled in to the Plane of Fire since leaving the party.

**The Life of the Party**

Phlain has a plan to unseat the Sultan Azhalar with his next gala. And what’s in fashion at the moment? Adventurers. Will the party help him, with a promise to reward them well if they make the gala a success? Can the characters shine at a party of efreet and dao? Do they know which fork to use, especially when one of them is on fire? What happens when Azhalar’s salamander general challenges a party member to a duel?

[[4. Life of the Party]]