#adventure [[Nymm (Daanvi)]]

> Imagine Terminus Station in Sharn, but instead of skycoaches and rail tickets, portals lead to different locations. Hundreds of mechanical creatures mill about, standing in orderly queues as they wait to pass through a portal. The streets may be crowded, but everyone walks at the same pace, every foot striking the ground at the exact same moment.

This moon alternates between rule by Aureon and his own Shadow, an agreement made long ago when The Shadow was first created as the price Aureon paid for arcane knowledge. Nymm is currently ruled by Aureon, the Sovereign of Law and Lore of the Sovereign Host, but The Shadow has been busy since he last stepped down as ruler. He has been using a combination of pacts to bind souls to service and blackmail of individuals using information on them from the Infinite Archive in order to gain power, hoping to take control of the realm back sooner than his time.

`dice: [[6. Nymm, the Crown or King Nymm#^daanvi-society]]`

### The Prime Gate

The party will land at the space dock which is immediately outside of The Prime Gate. The Gate contains portals to all other areas of Daanvi (marked with the locations below), but extraplanar visitors must acquire travel passes from the Passage Authority in order to use them. The players will also be handed an impossibly large book titled “Laws of the Prime Gate” with a button at the bottom that says “I Agree” - and they will be required to press the button, causing the book to disappear, in order to continue (think Terms of Service). A similar book appears with the "Laws of (Location)" any time the players attempt to enter a portal, and it must be agreed to before entry is allowed.

When the players arrive, roll a die to determine which group is currently working the Authority, and what they’ll need to do to obtain passes.

| d3  | Society     | Administration |
| --- | ----------- | -------------- |
| 1   | Just        | Angels         |
| 2   | Even-Handed | Modrons        |
| 3   | Oppressive  | Devils         |
^daanvi-society

#### 1. Just Society

Lines kept moving quickly and smoothly; as long as you truly have a valid reason for your travel, you should be able to pass.

In a Just society, the players are approached by an Angel who is a servant of Aureon. He asks the party to retrieve a particular item, a *crystal ball*, from The Panopticon. Aureon requires the object to scry on the former ruler of the plane, The Shadow, as he’s heard that there’s a coup afoot. Time is of the essence, and watch out for devils!

#### 2. Even-Handed

It’s possible to get through, but there are immense lines and a lot of redundant paperwork. In addition to having a clearly stated reason for travel, Modrons might only provide access to specific layers, or impose restrictions— “You’ll have to drink that potion now or throw it away.”

In an Even-Handed society, the players are approached by a Pentadrone. He asks the party to retrieve a particular item, a *crystal ball*, from The Panopticon. He’s learned that both the Angels and Devils are after it for some reason, and he must maintain order. Time is of the essence, and watch out for angels and devils!

#### 3. Oppressive

The devils on duty make it a living hell; the question is whether they’re more interested in extortion or tormenting travelers with bureaucratic burdens. Do they want a bribe? Do you need to perform a service for them? This is an archetypal abuse of power; what makes a good story?

In an Oppressive society, the players are approached by a Devil who is a servant of The Shadow. He asks the party to retrieve a particular item, a *crystal ball*, from The Panopticon. The Shadow requires the object to scry on the people of the plane in order to keep them in line. Although this is a lie (DC 15 Insight check), and he’s really going to use it to blackmail people, continue to gather power, and ascend back to the throne. Time is of the essence, and watch out for angels!

### The Panopticon

> You enter the grand tower of the Panopticon, where you see strange creatures bustling about - simple automatons shaped like circles, cubes, and pyramids with arms and legs. They pay you no mind, intent upon their own tasks. There is a thirteen-sided metallic dais in the exact center of the room. Its surface appears to be the face of an unusual clock, 13 arms sweeping it at precise intervals. Each arm is a different length, and they’re all moving at different speeds, as if tracking different phenomena. In the center of the clock rests a transparent sphere about as wide as a human hand.
> Suddenly, a (angel/devil) rushes toward the dais, climbs over the arms of the clock, and attempts to pry the crystal ball out of its location. In the process, the ball cracks. At this, some of the strange constructs, their bodies comprised of two blocks stacked atop each other, swarm the dais. Some immediately begin to remove the damaged ball and bring a new one in its place, while others attempt to escort the (angel/devil) off the dais.
> As the constructs approach, the (angel/devil) begins to indiscriminately attack those closest to him, swinging his flail left and right. Instantly, a pillar of light shoots down from the ceiling, paralyzing him for a moment, before disappearing as quickly as it came. He falls down dead, cracking his head on the floor.
> The blocky creatures efficiently clean up the body, also removing the floor panel that has a few smears of blood on it. It is clear that they are replacing any objects that were made “imperfect” in any way. A multi-layered, automated voice resonates in the chamber, speaking in an unusual foreign tongue that you nonetheless understand perfectly, “Object designated for Reconstruction. Replacement is present and being installed immediately.”

A cube-shaped construct with wings, known as a quadrone, approaches the party. The quadrone greets the party in a strangely even, plodding language that they do not understand. Upon seeing their lack of response (or confusion), it cycles through several other tongues before finally intoning calmly in Common:

> It is regrettable that he was unwilling to keep the peace. He would not have been punished for damaging the equipment, we modrons only approached to replace it, as is our purpose. We understand that imperfections will occur, he would have been forgiven. However, he resorted to violence and rage. Such imperfections must be purged from this plane.

**What Does the Quadrone Know**? The quadrone then presents them with enough crimson badges for each of them to pin onto their shirts, explaining that this identifies to the other modrons which language they speak.
- **What are you? What are all these creatures?** “All of the constructs in this chamber are modrons. We are imbued with the essence of order and exist to maintain it. I am called a quadrone, one of the most advanced of base modrons. The others you see are monodrones, duodrones, and tridones. They are significantly more limited in their ability to understand and interact with non-modrons.”
- **What is that clock for? What does it do?** The clock keeps perfect time and tracks the movement and locations of the 13 planes of existence, as well as the orbit of Eberron’s moons. Characters may determine this for themselves without asking if they succeed on a DC 15 Intelligence (Arcana) check. If asked why the clock tracks that data, the quadrone matter-of-factly replies “Calculations,” and does not elaborate.
- **We need a crystal ball, can we have one?** “They are fulfilling their purpose in the perfect order of things. Unless one is removed from service due to imperfection, like the objects the rogue element contaminated, they will remain forever. You are free to go admire them. Please do not contaminate them, however, or it too will be replaced, and you will be asked to leave the dais to avoid future imperfection.”
- **What happens to the items that are removed?** “All objects in this chamber must reflect perfection. When they no longer do so, they are decommissioned. The imperfect objects have been removed from service, and are sent to the Deconstruction Zone outside the city walls for recycling.”
- **Can we have the recycled items?** At this question, the quadrone pauses to process the question. “Why would you want it? It is now imperfect.” Once the party explains, it answers. “You may requisition anything if you wish to recycle it yourself.” It extends one arm in the direction of a staircase set in the floor right next to them. The quadrone gives careful directions to the Requisitions Department, thirty-five floors down, third door on the left.

The intent is to signal to the party that they can obtain a crystal ball by making it imperfect in some way. A small dent, a streak of purple paint, even an illusory mark made with prestidigitation would cause the modrons to automatically remove it from service, sending it to the Deconstruction Zone. After this, it is available for request from the Requisitions Department.

> This crystal ball no longer meets the modron’s exacting standards. Once again, they rush in, quickly removing the disorderly object. A multi-layered, automated voice resonates in the chamber, once again speaking in another tongue you nonetheless understand, “Object designated for Reconstruction. Replacement time: Undetermined.” Meanwhile, the modrons bearing the ball move to a small glowing platform, and after a moment, they vanish, apparently teleported away.

### The Panopticon - Requisitions Department

> As you enter the room labeled Requisitions Department, you see 13 long lines, filled with all manner of creatures. Bland peaceful music plays from an unseen source overhead. On the far right side of the room, you see a (angel/devil) waiting halfway through one of the lines, dozens of creatures already queuing behind him.

To complete the requisition process before the Angel/Devil, the party will need to perform a series of ability checks. If the party fails on two or less of the following steps, they beat the other party to the crystal ball, and he will attempt to take it from them. If the party fails on three or more of the following steps, it takes them too long to reach their goal. They will race to the Destruction Zone, but find that the other party entered just before them and obtained the artifact. Whichever group reaches the crystal ball first will have an advantage in the final confrontation.

##### 1. Waiting in Line

The party will need to proceed to the front of the line in an orderly manner. If they try to cut through line to reach the Angel/Devil, they are immediately locked in place by another beam of light, paralyzed, then approached by a construct in the shape of a five-pointed star, bearing an eye on each point. This is a pentadrone, the highest authority of the “base” modrons, and it ushers them to the back of the line. The party should receive the impression that order reigns supreme here, and there is no way to reach the other party at the moment.

Every character may attempt a DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check to pick the fastest-moving line.
- Upon a success, the party notices that the third line on the left is moving faster than the others. They reach the front of the line before the other party.

> You wait patiently in line for what seems like forever. In front of you are three ant-like creatures gazing at each other, not a word spoken, and yet you sense they are deep in conversation. Behind you waits a plate-armored celestial with wings of fire, followed by two cloaked figures floating several inches off the ground, their masked faces concealing a luminous ball of light. Your line moves painfully slowly, but the other lines move slower yet. There are still several creatures in front of them by the time you reach the front of your own line and approach the winged cube manning the counter.

- Upon a failure, the party selects a slow-moving line, and the other party gets to the front of the line first.

> You wait patiently in line for what seems like forever. In front of you are three ant-like creatures gazing at each other, not a word spoken, and yet you sense they are deep in conversation. Behind you waits a plate-armored celestial with wings of fire, followed by two cloaked figures floating several inches off the ground, their masked faces concealing a luminous ball of light. Your line moves painfully slowly, and you are only halfway to the front before you see the [Angel/Devil] reach the front of the line and begin conversing with the winged cube manning the counter. They take a stack of paper from the modron then gleefully rush out of the room.

Regardless of the outcome of the ability check, the characters gain the benefits of finishing a short rest while waiting in line.

##### 2. Requisition Form

Upon reaching the front of the line, another quadrone greets the party impersonally and efficiently, prompting them to “State your purpose.” After the party explains what they want, they are handed a five-page application.

> “The application process is straightforward,” the modron assures you. “Please complete this requisition form and proceed through those doors to the Requisition Submission Room, where you will be licensed for object retrieval.”
> You make your way to the next room, where there are another 13 lines, though you’re relieved they’re slightly shorter than in the last. You select a line, then while you wait, work painstakingly to fill out the requisition form you were given.

One character may attempt a DC 14 Intelligence (Calligrapher’s Supplies or Forgery Kit) check, tools not required. If nobody is proficient in either, they may roll a straight Intelligence check without the proficiency bonus.
- Upon a success, the characters find the paperwork bizarre, but manage to complete it.

> When you reach the front, another quadrone carefully inspects your handiwork, then nods. “You have met minimum compliance standards. Once I confirm your identification, we can process your license application. Authorization crystal please?”

- Upon a failure, their paperwork is rejected due to bureaucratic mistakes.

> When you reach the front, another quadrone carefully inspects your application, then shakes its head. “This application does not meet minimum compliance standards. ‘N/A’ is not a proper response to ‘Essential Cosmic Attunement,’ and you have not filled in a value for ‘Projected Time of Death.’ This application is denied. Please try again.” It pushes another 5-page application across the counter. After another hour spent filling it out and waiting in the line again, you finally meet their approval. “You have met minimum compliance standards. Once I confirm your identification, we can process your license application. Authorization crystal please?”

##### 3. Proper Identification

Khorvarian dentification papers are not recognized in Daanvi, and one of the characters will need to obtain a valid Daanvian ID in the form of an authorization crystal to apply for a license. Any artificer, wizard, or character proficient in Arcana would recognize that the authorization crystal operates like a spellshard, allowing information to be easily reviewed, and possibly even modified by someone with sufficient knowledge. If the party presents an authorization crystals without altering it first, it is quickly rejected as belonging to another creature.

> The quadrone concentrates on the authorization crystal for a moment, then responds, “Denied. You are not Pak’cha, a formian from Sector 203D. This crystal will be returned to the designated citizen. If you do not have identification, you may apply for temporary authorization from the Identification Bureau.” The creature does not return your crystal.

The party may attempt either of the following options:
- Authorization Crystal Hack: A character may attempt a DC 15 Intelligence (Arcana) check to modify any remaining authorization crystal in their possession. They may roll with advantage if another character with Arcana proficiency assists in the attempt.
    - Upon a success, he identification crystal is successfully modified to reflect their own identification information. Read the first quote below. Upon a failure, the crystal hack is unsuccessful. Read the second quote below.

> You slip out of the Requisition Submission Room and find a quiet corner. After carefully inspecting the spell matrix embedded in this diamond, you are able to realign the magical energy contained within. You are delighted that you have successfully altered the authorization crystal. No longer does it indicate you are a formian named Tan’Thak from Sector 48F, but rather, contains your own personal information.

> You slip out of the Requisition Submission Room and find a quiet corner. You carefully inspect the spell matrix embedded in this diamond, but are unable to alter it to hold your own personal information. As you are not a formian named Tan’Thak from Sector 48F, you head to the Identification Bureau in disappointment. Hours later, after presenting your ID papers from Khorvaire and explaining your unique situation to at least 4 different individuals, you finally emerge with your own temporary paper ID card. The Bureau assures you that your authorization crystal will be ready for pickup within 2-3 weeks, but this will work in the meantime.

- Identification Bureau: The party may choose to follow the bureaucratic process, visiting the Identification Bureau for official papers, no check necessary.

> With little enthusiasm, you head down another 20 flights of stairs to the Identification Bureau to obtain your own identification. Hours later, after presenting your ID papers from Khorvaire and explaining your unique situation to at least 4 different individuals, you finally emerge with your own temporary paper ID card. The Bureau assures you that your authorization crystal will be ready for pickup within 2-3 weeks, but this will work in the meantime.

##### 4. Operation License (optional)

After presenting the proper identification, the characters head back to the Requisition Submission Room.

> You head back to the Requisition Submission Room and wait in yet another line. Once you reach the front, you triumphantly present your official identification to the quadrone. After a careful review, it pushes a cylinder, the size of a scroll, across the counter to you. “After confirming you are competent to operate an object of this complexity, you will receive final approval for its acquisition. Please decipher the passcode and return for authorization.”

Cylinder Puzzle. The cylinder the party is given is about 12 inches long and has a diameter of 2 inches. There is text on the cylinder. Some of it is fixed, but the rest keeps shifting and changing, as if the ink is alive and wants to be a new letter as soon as it finishes becoming the one it is now. It’s beautiful and distracting at the same time.
The inscription on this cylinder must be deciphered. Etched on the exterior of the tube’s cylinder are a series of squares and letters. There are nine squares running down the length of the tube and another nine squares around its circumference. Some of the squares contain a single letter while others are shifting through nine possible letters.
This is a standard Sudoku puzzle, but uses letters rather than numbers. Give each player their own separate printed copy of the puzzle, or use a dry-erase grid so they can fill it in collaboratively. 
To complete the puzzle, the players need to fill all empty squares so that the nine different letters appear exactly once in each row, column and 3x3 box. Upon completing it, a phrase will appear in the middle row of the puzzle.
Characters with higher Intelligence scores should have a better grasp of how to solve this kind of puzzle, even if the player does not. Have each character roll an Intelligence check. Consult the table below to determine how many bonus answers each character receives.

| Int Check | Bonus |
| --- | --- |
| 0 - 10 | 0 |
| 11 - 12 | 1 |
| 13 - 14 | 2 |
| 15 - 16 | 3 |
| 17 - 19 | 4 |
| 20 - 22 | 6 |
| 22 + | 8 |

For any characters that roll above a 10, consult the puzzle key. For each bonus answer earned, fill in one of the answers from the green highlighted squares on the key, going in order from top to bottom, left to right. (For example, if a character earns one bonus answer, the bonus answer given is the green square at top-left of the key.)

Once the party solves the puzzle, whether by doing so in- character or out-of-character, read or paraphrase the following:

> As you complete the puzzle, the center row of the cylinder illuminates with a bright white light. “Say Unlock,” it reads. After waiting in line again, you present the activated cylinder. “Competence confirmed, you are qualified to operate the object,” the quadrone responds.

##### 5. Navigation

After navigating the final step of the Daanvian bureaucracy, the party receives final authorization.

> While the modron reviews your paperwork, making three copies and stamping each with a series of glyphs, you look all around for the [Angel/Devil], but there is no sign of your him, and you aren’t sure if that’s because they’ve gotten ahead or behind you in this endless application process. After an interminable wait, the construct assisting you intones, “You have received full ownership authorization. You may proceed to the Deconstruction Zone.” You receive an Ownership Authorization Certificate, along with elaborately detailed turn-by-turn instructions.

One character may attempt a DC 10 Wisdom (Survival) check to navigate to the Deconstruction Zone. They may roll with advantage if another character with Survival proficiency assists in the attempt.
- Upon a success, they find their way without any difficulty.

> With relief, you leave the large square building and set off. The instructions you received are detailed to the point of being overwhelming, but you are able to follow them to the letter, quickly arriving at your destination, the Deconstruction Zone.

- Upon a failure, they take several wrong turns.

> With relief, you leave the large square building and set off. Despite the overwhelmingly detailed navigation instructions you received, the city is dizzying and you take several wrong turns before finally arriving at your destination, the Deconstruction Zone.

##### 6. Deconstruction Zone

After navigating across the city, the party is finally ready to lay their claim to the crystal ball.

> After reaching the Deconstruction Zone Central Office, presenting the proper paperwork and having it reviewed for what feels like the hundredth time, you are escorted into what appears to be the city junkyard. You are taken aback by the neat and orderly piles of “imperfect” supplies stretching as far as the eye can see. Much of it is only mildly flawed or damaged, but the piles easily reach heights of fifteen feet in places.

In the final encounter of this adventure, the crystal ball has been deposited in the Deconstruction Zone, an enormous junkyard littered with orderly piles of “imperfect” materials.

> The modrons escort you to a pile of materials perhaps a mile and a half away from the front desk. They all work together to lift a large slab of steel covering the pile, and underneath shines the ‘broken’ crystal ball, which you can clearly see is still fully functional despite the cosmetic mark on the surface.
> As you pick it up, a slow, mocking applause fills the air, and as you turn around, you can see the (angel/devil) from before. “I suppose that I should thank you. I’ll be taking that, thank you very much.”

`encounter: 1: Radiant Idol`

`encounter: 1: Horned Devil`

If the dead body or the Deconstruction Zone is searched, a [[Clockwork Amulet]] is found.

### The Hall of Justice

> You enter an immense complex containing an impossible number of courts and chambers of inquiry. In smaller chambers, immortals debate the actions of the beings observed in the Panopticon. A large mechanical humanoid, wearing elaborate golden-hued banded-mail armor and a flowing red robe, is seating in the center of the chamber.

Adventurers who violate the laws of Daanvi are brought before an immortal tribunal. Usually this is a straightforward matter; the judges question the accused. The accused is granted an Advocate and opposed by a Voice of Justice; typically one of these is an angel, the other a devil. Both of these immortals may conjure images from the lives of the accused, drawing on the records gathered from the Panopticon. Once a case is decided by the Kolyarut, the inevitable tribunal enacts their judgment; this ruling is final, and can’t be questioned or appealed.

##### Daanvian Judgment

What happens when characters break the laws of Daanvi? In theory, there’s an incredibly complex Code of Justice that the Kolyarut uses to determine the ideal punishment. In practice, the punishment should fit the crime, but it depends on the district where the judgment takes place. An angel upholds the law but seeks to ensure that the punishment truly is fair; a devil may use the threat of a disproportionate punishment (entirely legitimate by the Code of Justice, of course) to drive extortion.

Physical punishments are possible, from beating to maiming (such as the loss of an eye or tongue) to execution. Such punishments are most common in oppressive layers. Imprisonment is rare, but possible, either in a local cell or the Inescapable Prison. Because of the flowing time of Daanvi, a hundred years in a Daanvi cell is only ten years on Eberron.

Fines are common, not because Daanvi needs revenue, but because it’s easily adjusted to the individual. Fines like gold or property can be taken immediately, or future earnings might be garnished; perhaps half of all gold the character acquires immediately vanishes until the fine has been paid.

Another common punishment is the judgment tattoo, a complex marking placed across the victim’s face that can’t be removed by any power short of a *wish* spell. Any creature that speaks a language can magically understand its meaning, conveyed in a simple concept like MURDERER or THIEF. A successful DC 15 Intelligence (Arcana) check allows a character to identify it as a judgment tattoo from Daanvi.

Other magical punishments could be imposed. The offender could experience the effects of bestow curse for a year or a lifetime. A liar could be unable to tell a lie for a year (though they can be evasive in their answers). A convict could be stripped of a particular talent, taking disadvantage on a specific skill check during their the sentence. They could be stripped of fame, and no one will give the victim credit for positive actions, though they can still receive blame for misdeeds. There are few limits on what an inevitable tribunal can do, and undoing such a judgment requires the power of a wish.



### The Infinite Archive

Daanvi’s Infinite Archive contains records on every being that’s ever existed. Here, the data gathered by the Panopticon and the rulings of the Hall of Justice are recorded and efficiently preserved. Records focus on each individual’s deeds, whether they’ve adhered to or violated countless codes of legal and moral standards. Daanvi doesn’t generally do anything with this data; they have no jurisdiction to act on it. So through your life, the immortals of Daanvi have watched and judged your every action. You aren’t rewarded or punished for your deeds, but they know what you’ve done, and it’s forever preserved on your permanent record.

Mortals must present an excellent reason— or bribe a devil— to get access to the Archive. The Infinite Archive lives up to its name, and is unknowably vast. If adventurers have a legitimate inquiry, a deva sage can be quite helpful. Working with modrons is a long and tedious process, while devils make it even more unpleasant.

If the players come here, they can choose to randomly wander the Archive halls and see what they find, in which case roll on the Infinite Archive Being table to determine who they learn about. Otherwise they can look for a specific record in the Archive, which requires a successful DC 16 Investigation check. Either way, describe in full the actions of whichever being is selected.

`dice: [[6. Nymm, the Crown or King Nymm#^daanvi-infinite-archive]]`

### The Iron Ward

This city of gray stone embodies the worst aspects of oppressive law. Councilor Alashta, a cruel amnizu, wields absolute power and can’t be questioned or challenged. Most of the subjects of the ward are indentured servants, trapped in inescapable contracts; visitors must be careful not to accept any offers of work in the ward, lest they be similarly trapped. There are regular displays of brutal “justice” in the grand plaza. Imps scurry in the shadows, watching outsiders and carrying news of their actions to the chain devils and erinyes that serve as the brutal police force. While they can’t punish adventurers “unjustly,” they can tempt visitors into misconduct; fiendish merchants and patrons have many appealing offers for adventurers, but almost all would surely lead to breaking a law of the ward, obscure and ridiculous as it may be.

While the Iron Ward symbolizes the evils of oppressive order, it is driven by order. The police and councilors twist the law and weaponize it, but ultimately even they must obey the laws— the one advantage adventurers have in passing through this place. And while the subjects of the Iron Ward are brutally oppressed, they’re largely symbolic; it’s questionable if the subjects even exist when no one’s around to observe their suffering.

### The Inescapable Prison

Maintained by devils, this oppressive layer is the embodiment of prison — the inevitable consequence of challenging the law. With the full power of Daanvi behind it, the Inescapable Prison makes Dreadhold look like a cell in the local sheriff’s office. It’s designed to hold celestials, elementals, and other beings with vast power; there are convicts here from a half-dozen planes of existence. Mortals can also be imprisoned here; their biological processes are put in suspension, so they don’t need to eat or drink, and they don’t age.

Hundreds of thousands of years ago, Onatar traveled to Eberron as a brass dragon and gave fire to the mortals to help them through the cold winters, defying the laws of Daanvi that forbid interference with mortals races. He was removed from the rotation of rulers (which is why rule now alternates between Aureon and The Shadow) and thrown in to the Inescapable Prison. It's possible that if Onatar were somehow broken out of the prison, then he could be returned to the ruling rotation, thwarting The Shadow's plans further.

[[6. Prisoner 13]]

### The Perfect Grange

The Perfect Grange is a vast, precisely maintained farm, displaying the virtues of agricultural discipline. Underneath the perfect fields is a formian settlement where immortal ant-like spirits care for their queen.

#### Klictrik, the Formian City

The Formians are struggling since an unexpected flood drowned half of their underground city and killed their Queen. Now, a myrmarch named Demansiq has claimed the Mantelavian scepter (which would secure his place as Regent and ruler until a new Queen arrives) and is working to recharge it. Can he be trusted?

### Random Tables

| d20 | Modron Name |
| --- | ----------- |
| 1   | 43-NRY      |
| 2   | 05-CAR      |
| 3   | M3-GAN      |
| 4   | 808-13      |
| 5   | CAR-13      |
| 6   | DOT-13      |
| 7   | EVE-13      |
| 8   | KAT-13      |
| 9   | ROS-13      |
| 10  | WIL-13      |
| 11  | CHR-15      |
| 12  | DEN-15      |
| 13  | DOR-15      |
| 14  | JAM-35      |
| 15  | MAR-60      |
| 16  | AN-63-L     |
| 17  | BR-1-AN     |
| 18  | JA-1-ME     |
| 19  | JA-5-ON     |
| 20  | S-1-MON     |
^random-modron-names

| dice: 3d6 | Being                                |
| --- | ------------------------------------ |
| 3   | [[Xor'chylic]]                       |
| 4   | [[Seltern Obranch]]                  |
| 5   | [[Violet Boromar]]                   |
| 6   | [[Ikar the Black]]                   |
| 7   | [[Miall]]                            |
| 8   | [[Mercerik d’Sivis]]                 |
| 9   | [[Lei d'Cannith]]                    |
| 10  | [[Jaela Daran]]                      |
| 11  | [[Frederic]]                         |
| 12  | [[Rida Tan Lorghalen]]             |
| 13  | [[Aaren d’Cannith (Lord of Blades)]] |
| 14  | [[Oargev ir’Wynarn]]                 |
| 15  | [[Ditan Indaze]]                     |
| 16  | [[Dora Thornwaist]]                  |
| 17  | [[Elaydren d’Vown]]                  |
| 18  | [[Mordain the Fleshweaver]]          |
^daanvi-infinite-archive

### References

* The Panopticon is inspired by Convergence Manifesto Adventure AE01-05: Perfect Timing, Scenes 4 through 6.
* For The Perfect Grange, use "Lost Sovereignty" from Tales from the Infinite Staircase (pg, 30)