#adventure [[Lharvion (Xoriat)]] [[Delirium]] [[Belashyrra]] [[Kyrzin]] [[Dyrrn]]



### **The Maze of Reality**

The maze is the only thing that can be seen when the players near the moon. There is a clear landing spot in a large room at the front of the maze, but it stretches off far enough that the players can’t ascertain where to go in the maze from the sky. The maze itself has several dead-ends that end in portals to various different locations in the plane (below). The very center of the maze leads to Delirium’s Dollhouse.

When the players land in the maze, a small girl is there. She says they can call her Delirium, and she describes the maze. She says her pet rat is lost in the maze, and she’s going in to find it, then runs off before the players can further question her.

Within the maze, the players may encounter Delirium again, encounter her current pet rat (which looks like a dolgrim and talks about the players’ Eberron), her last pet rat (which looks like a Gith and talks about their version of Eberron and its destruction), or her next pet rat (which looks draconic and talks about the future version of Eberron the players may encounter). They may also happen upon one of many portals to other locations on the plane.

Have the players establish a marching order, with the person in lead rolling a DC 14 Survival check each time the group decides to move further in the maze. Use the tables below to determine failure or success results. Track failures and successes, with the players starting at 0 and counting either up or down as appropriate. When they get to +5, they make it to the center of the maze where Delirium’s Dollhouse is.

At the same time the players make their roll, roll a d20 to determine if a psychic haunt happens (see Random Encounters).

**Survival Check**
| d8 | Failure Result | Attitude |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | The maze re-arranges itself right in front of your eyes, leaving you hopelessly lost |  |
| 2 | 1 Mind Flayer can be seen in the distance, manipulating the maze and changing its layout | Indifferent |
| 3 | 1 Adult Oblex blocks the path ahead, causing you to take a different route and getting lost | Indifferent |
| 4 | 1 Beholder | Hostile |
| 5 | 1d4 Dolgaunts | Hostile |
| 6 | 1d8 Gibbering Mouthers | Hostile |
| 7 | 1d12 Dolgrims | Indifferent |
| 8 | 1d8 Flumphs | Indifferent |

| d10 | Success Result |
| --- | --- |
| 1 | Lines start appearing on the ground, leading you the correct direction in the maze |
| 2 | The little girl appears in the distance, looks at you shyly, and then starts walking away |
| 3 | A small rat, which has two heads stacked one on top of the other, appears and gestures ahead, then runs off |
| 4 | A small rat, just like the pet mouse you met with the little girl, appears and gestures ahead, then runs off |
| 5 | A small rat, with almost draconic scales and an elongated nose, appears and gestures ahead, then runs off |
| 6 | The maze reconfigures itself in front of your eyes, revealing a red portal [leads to the Unseen Citadel] |
| 7 | The maze reconfigures itself in front of your eyes, revealing a purple portal [leads to The Fields of Thought] |
| 8 | The maze reconfigures itself in front of your eyes, revealing a green portal [leads to the Orchard of Ooze] |
| 9 | The maze reconfigures itself in front of your eyes, revealing a blue portal [leads to the Emocean] |
| 10 | Lines start appearing on the ground, leading you the correct direction in the maze |

### **The Unseen Citadel**

This is the stronghold and birthplace of the daelkyr Belashyrra. The Lord of Eyes imagined the beholders and brought that vision to life, and the Citadel is home to a host of beholderkin. Tiny floating eyes buzz about like insects. Millipede-like creatures have rows of eyes running down their backs. The true beholders are mostly focused in deep contemplation of specific things, and don’t pay attention to outsiders unless they’re disturbed. Some study strange paintings. Others watch scrying pools reflecting images of Eberron or other planes. And some examine seemingly mundane objects, such as a rusty iron key, a dead rabbit, or an expensive hat. However, there are a few that patrol the Citadel, watchful for intruders.

The surfaces of the Citadel are made from an iridescent material that your eyes can’t quite focus on, as if the walls and floor are blurred. There are mirrors spread around the halls. Some run slow and show you younger than they are; others show glimpses of the future. Scrying pools reveal secrets you don’t want to know— current events on Eberron, scenes from the past, or the possible future.

### **The Fields of Thought**

This layer is the domain of Dyrrn the Corruptor. Purple fields are bathed in ultraviolet light, and fluorescent sculptures shed eerie dim light. Varr farmers dance as they tend the fields, but what they cultivate are emotions; anyone walking through a field feels a powerful emotion (fear, sorrow, anger, guilt) washing over them. Each field has an outpost containing an elder brain, with a bright line of thought transmitting the emotions to Dyrrn’s tower at the heart of the layer.

Dyrrn’s tower is made of glowing threads of pure thought intertwined around a massive steel spinal column. This tower is filled with the tools of fleshcrafting. There are pools of blood and canals of amniotic fluid, massive pulsing organs waiting for a purpose, and untended tendrils crawling across the floor. Adventurers might find a chamber that contains half- formed clones of the adventurers themselves... or perhaps the clones are completed, and consider the adventurers to be evil doppelgangers.

The spire amplifies Dyrrn’s telepathic abilities, letting it sense all living creatures within the layer. Dyrrn specializes in corruption, and it may challenge adventurers with mental projections, such as people plucked from their memories, who seek to turn them against their allies.

### **The Orchard of Ooze**

This layer is the domain of Kyrzin, the Prince of Slime. Rivers and pools are made of living protoplasm, which reaches out toward passersby.

The large gelatinous trees here grow secrets, instead of fruit.. Some of them may be secrets of the adventurers, or those of their enemies. Others are secrets of strangers and secrets about reality. Do the adventurers block their ears, or do they try to listen? Any player who approaches a tree can roll a Perception check to learn a secret from the table below, and can reach into the tree to take the secret for themselves (which appears in their hand as a gummy candy).

### **The Emocean**

The Emocean is a tide of surging thoughts and emotions, deeper and more primal than Dal Quor’s Ocean of Dreams. Flumph cloisters drift along streams of consciousness, drawing sustenance from the pure psychic emanations surrounding them. This is a blissful experience, and most flumphs have no interest in leaving. It is also the realm of The Master of Silence, who lords over monsters of telepathy.

### **Delirium’s Dollhouse**

This is the home of Delirium, and can only be accessed from a portal in the center of the Maze of Reality.

### Random Encounters

**Psychic Haunts**
| d20 | Psychic Haunt |
| --- | --- |
| 1 | A man wanders around in the cavern. His fingers are black with frostbite, and his mouth is agape in a silent scream. Although he appears real, the man is no more substantial than a phantom and does not respond to any interaction. |
| 2 | One party member (determined randomly) hears a stream of whispers. The character can’t make out what's being said but can hear their name mentioned now and then. The whispers can’t be tracked to a source. |
| 3 | Each party member sees their companions’ flesh wither as black worms crawl out of their ears, noses, and mouths. The effect is illusory, harmless, and fleeting. |
| 4 | One party member (determined randomly) hears footsteps behind them when they move. When they stand still, the party member can feel hot breath against the back of their neck. The effect is illusory and harmless. |
| 5 | Each party member detects a familiar scent in this cavern that reminds them of some tragic or fearful event in their past. The scent does not have a source. |
| 6 | One party member (determined randomly) sees a dark, hulking shape moving through the wall, ceiling, or floor, as though it were swimming through the ice. The effect is illusory, harmless, and fleeting. |
| 7+ | No haunt |