#adventure [[Barrakas (Irian)]] [[Desire]] [[Dawn Empress]] [[The Gardener]] [[Araam]]



### **Amaranthine City**

The Amaranthine City is the capital of an empire in its first bloom of glory. Gilded banners catch the wind. Armored angels and pegasi patrols pass overhead. People laugh in the streets, healthy and happy. Artisans create a mosaic depicting glorious victories. While this is an empire, the message isn’t about oppression, but one of potential. This is an empire where all the citizens are prosperous and all have equal opportunities. People are proud, the city is full of wonders, and the future is bright. The Amaranthine City is widely seen as the heart of Irian. Its Dawn Empress is the first and greatest of the Architects.

The largest city in the realm is largely populated by embers, manifestations linked to a spark—a tiny echo of a soul, each one tied to a living creature. Each ember should have the appearance and name of a person the party has met during their adventures, but otherwise they’ll act like basic NPCs, just populating the scene and moving about randomly.  An ember resembles the mortal whose spark fuels it, but it isn’t fully conscious and doesn’t have any complete memories, merely echoes of that mortal’s brightest joys, deepest hopes, and greatest deeds.

The city contains a variety of buildings, but some of the most famous are Club Starlight, Desire’s Den, and Rhea’s Resort (below). There’s also a frozen yogurt shop called “Icicles Frozen Yogurt Shop” run by an Ice Djinn, a clothing store called “Everything Fits”, and food shops called “Chocolate Everything”, “Chai There!” and “The Good Plates”. Suraya’s Bay is on the outskirts of town, between the Amaranthine City and The Garden.

### **The Garden**

The Garden lives up to its name; it’s a vast zoological garden filled with foliage. It contains every plant that can be found in the Material Plane, along with many that can’t. There are winding paths, peaceful pools, wondrous topiaries, and complicated hedge mazes. In contrast to the wilds of Lamannia, this is very carefully cultivated. The Garden is suffused with a sense of peace, beauty, and the wondrous things life can create. The Garden is the realm of the Gardener, an Architect whose principle is life.

The many layers of the Garden showcase various elements of fertility and the triumph of life. There are a few layers that are slightly darker than the rest of Irian, though still suffused with dim light in their darkest corners—these reflect the principle that life overcomes hardship. The message of the ruined castle isn’t to dwell on the destruction, but to see the flowers blooming on the walls. Most of the embers in the region take animal form, and ki-rin are the most common celestials.

Possibly incorporate the spider librarian and her sister here (NADDPOD C3, Ep. 17 “The Green Lord”) as the Gardener’s assistants who catalog and organize all of the plants of the garden with a card catalog-like system.

### **The Refuge**

The Refuge is a vast fortress-monastery, though it has aspects of a spa as well. It’s filled with tranquil groves, soothing baths, and places to rest and reflect. The fortress walls don’t represent potential conflict, but rather speak to the absolute security of the place—within its walls, you are safe from all threats. The Refuge holds healers who can treat your injuries, mediators who can talk through problems, and sages who may not know the answers you need, but can point you in the right direction.
This isn’t a place where adventures occur; it’s where you recover from your injuries and plan your next move, knowing that you’re safe and that there are answers to every problem. Araam is the Architect of the Refuge and embodies the concept of hope.

### **Club Starlight**

A rave-inspired dance club that’s run by a Lumi, who also serves as the bouncer (who glows with positive energy and gives off light for 5 feet). If any player isn’t feeling positively about visiting the club, they’ll either need to change their outlook for real, or succeed on a DC 20 Deception check in order to get in to the club - the Lumi can’t abide negativity in his club!
The air inside is awash with mushroom spores, created by myconid wait staff, which force the players to make a Constitution saving throw every hour they’re in the club, or become subject to an hallucinogenic vision (below).
The bartender is … ???
The DJ at the far end of the dance floor (30 feet across) is a Radiant Idol (who himself glows dimly in the otherwise darker stage) who casts Hypnotic Pattern periodically to produce colorful lights on the dance floor when the beat drops. The Wisdom saving throw for the spell starts at 16, and is reduced by 1 each time the players are forced to do it, until it becomes negligible and is no longer necessary to make (probably around 6).
The dance floor is primarily populated by embers and energons (barely sentient energy balls), but there are a few angels dancing as well.

**Hallucinogenic Visions**: The effects of hallucinogenic visions last for 1 minute (unless otherwise noted).

| d8 | Behavior |
| --- | --- |
| 1 | You must succeed on either a Dexterity or Wisdom saving throw (DC 15) or fall prone. |
| 2-3 | You don’t move or take actions. instead becoming entranced by the translucent, rococo patterns you sees covering every nearby surface. |
| 4-5 | You become confused, hallucinating various images on itself and others (have player describe what effect they’re seeing). |
| 6-7 | The hallucinations have focused your mind rather than distracting it. You have advantage on the next saving throw you make (in the next hour). |
| 8 | Suffering only mild hallucinations, you can act and move normally. |

### **Desire’s Den**

This club/bathhouse/bar is entirely sex-positive and run by Desire, the most powerful of all of the Architects. All sexuality is welcome and openly embraced here (much like Risa in Star Trek). The symbol of the club is a heart made of glass.

### **Rhea’s Resort**

A Ki-rin ranch can be found just outside of the Amaranthine City. The ki-rin here aren’t contained in any way and actually run the place themselves, but they freely choose to give visitors and angels rides around the plane. The leader is a Ki-rin female (said to be exceptionally rare), named named Ahn-so, who has gathered all the others males as a sort of harem.

### **Suraya Bay**

A coastal resort, known for having villas built right into the quartz cliffs. One recommended restaurant is a little boat that sails into the bay every dusk. Patrons can wade out to it, and are served seafood right off the deck.