#location #district [[Sharn]]

Dura, one of the largest and oldest quarter of Sharn, rises from the ruins Shaarat and the Old Sharn that fell at the end of the War of the Mark. But as Sharn has grown over the centuries since that terrible conflict, Dura has been left behind. Today, many consider it a blight on the city, riddled as it is with poverty and crime. Dura is home to the majority of the lower classes of Sharn, and Lower Dura is generally considered to be little better than the Cogs.

Nonetheless, Dura is the gateway to the Dagger River. Cargo passes from Cliffside up through Dura, and most of the vast warehouse districts are located in the lower ward. The Bazaar of Dura is a source for all manner of unusual goods, including a wide range of illegal merchandise. Dura may be dangerous and dirty, but it is certainly a gateway to adventure.

The Race of Eight Winds has a major impact on the culture of this quarter. Residents born and raised in Dura are likely to be quite passionate about the race, and outsiders who settle in one of the districts of Dura would be wise to smile and nod when the subject comes up. As the time of the race draws near, Callestan and Hareth’s Folly become a hotbed of arguments and brawls.

### **Lower Dura**
Character: Miserable and dangerous, this ward is hotbed of crime and violence.

Once the heart of Sharn, Lower Dura has slowly decayed as the rest of the city moved higher into the sky. Now it is a dark and dangerous place. Precarious and the Stores play important roles in the economy of the city, but the other districts have largely been left to fester and rot. Today, Lower Dura is home to the miserable poor. The Sharn Watch rarely risks patrolling Lower Dura, and the ward has become a center for criminal activities. The inhabitants of the ward may be shielded by gang allegiances, ties to one of the major criminal organizations, or the simple fact of having nothing to steal, but adventurers had best tread lightly and keep weapons near at hand when venturing here. Street violence occurs on a regular basis, amateur and professional cutpurses abound, and the Sharn Watch won't do much to help. A drawn blade and a successful DC 15 Intimidate check made when entering the district keep most of the rabble away—of course, the more dangerous criminals may see this as challenge and a promise of worthy loot.

In general, Lower Dura is a wretched place, and the city council does little to change that. Everburning torches light most of the district, as opposed to everbright lanterns, and in the worst neighborhoods many of the torches have been shattered or stolen. The ward shows its age, with cracked and worn streets, walls covered with mildew and graffiti, and other signs of neglect and wear and tear. Once Lower Dura was Sharn, and it included a garrison, manors for the city lords, a great temple, and other important buildings. Over the course of time these structures have been forgotten or repurposed. Lower Dura is full of the shadows of a glorious past that can barely be seen beneath the grime of the present.

**Callestan** (Inn district)

> The inns and taverns in this district are dark and grimy. Vermin run like water through the streets on a stormy day, including rats that scurry into shadows and foul men and women who study you with avaricious eyes.
> 

When Sharn first rose from the ruins of Shaarat, Callestan was the center for trade and commerce. Today, it serves as a center for illegal trade and activity. The people who come to stay in the inns of Callestan sacrifice comfort to avoid the watchful eyes of the law, and many crooked deals are arranged in these dark taverns.
Until recently, Callestan was a stronghold of the Boromar Clan. The Tyrants and House Tarkanan both conducted business in the district, but the Boromars collected tribute from the merchants, and the fences, dreamlily dens, and gambling halls all owed allegiance to the halfling crime lords. Over the last two years, however, Daask has been posing a significant threat to the Boromar position in Callestan. Daask soldiers have beaten and killed Boromar operatives. Businesses with ties to the Boromars have been threatened, robbed, or even destroyed. Tarkanan and the Tyrants have taken advantage of this conflict to strengthen their own positions, expanding their businesses and contacts in the region.
Most of the average services and trades, and all of the upscale services and trades, offered in this district are criminal in nature. Callestan is the best place to go to find a fence, arrange for a burglary, or acquire forged papers. All of these things can be found elsewhere in the city, but in Callestan you don't have to worry about the Watch taking an interest. At this point, the district has become a crossroads for the four major criminal powers of Sharn, and one must deal with different groups for different services. House Tarkanan usually handles assassination and theft; forgery, deception, and prostitution are typically tied to the Tyrants; and smuggling, gambling, petty theft, and illegal goods are the realm of the Boromar Clan. Daask takes the role of a wild card that could intrude on any of these areas, but usually deal in violent crime.

**The Broken Anvil Inn**: This small tavern with a handful of rooms to rent is carved into a bend in the wall of Mason’s Tower. House Ghallanda operates the inn, and the host is a matronly halfling named Eranna.

**The Cracked Mirror**: The Cracked Mirror is a quiet, unremarkable inn, notable for the number of changelings and shifters among its clientele. In fact, the inn serves as a front for the Tyrants, and anyone who wants to do business with the Tyrants can find someone to talk to here. Any changeling receives a +1 bonus on all Intelligence checks made in the Cracked Mirror.
A shrine dedicated to the Keeper is hidden in the basement of the Cracked Mirror, and many of the regular customers participate in secret ceremonies to this deity. The doppelganger Zaz (CN female doppelganger cleric 5) maintains the shrine. While Zaz gets along well with the Tyrants, her true loyalty lies with the Cabinet of Faces, the mysterious cult of
the Traveler hidden in the shadows of Khorvaire. She generally helps the Tyrants, but she often sets her own bizarre schemes in motion.
The owners and staff of the Cracked Mirror appear to change on a weekly basis—one week the innkeeper is a cheerful male dwarf named Mrogab, the next week she’s a surly female half-orc named Traaka. In fact, the staff consists of two doppelgangers (not counting Zaz) and six changelings. These eight take turns playing various roles at the inn and performing work for the Tyrants; they enjoy creating elaborate dramas with these roles, and each trip to the Cracked Mirror should involve colorful new personalities. While the on-duty staff generally assumes the forms of other races, most of the doppelganger or changeling clientele maintain their natural forms while at the inn.

**Silvermist**: Officially, Silvermist is a dream parlor secretly owned by the Boromar Clan—a place where illusions and glamers are used for the entertainment of guests. The regular entertainers include Jix (CN female changeling expert 3), a changeling who uses her natural powers to perform unusual one-woman ballets and operas, and Salleon (CN male gnome illusionist 3), an illusionist who fascinates audiences with bizarre and compelling hypnotic patterns. In addition, Silvermist is a dreamlily den—a place where people can buy and use dreamlily without fear of the law.

**Fallen** (Slum)

> At first glance, this district looks like a ruin. Huge chunks of stone are scattered around the outer streets. Statues of the gods look down upon you, but many have shattered features or missing limbs. A few buildings and bridges have collapsed, in whole or in part, and most of the surviving buildings show some amount of scarring and damage.
> 

Fallen is the worst district in a bad ward. A century ago, it was known as Godsgate, Sharn’s first temple district. But as the city grew, the primary temples relocated to the higher wards, and the most important relics were taken to Sovereign Towers. Some of the temples remained in service, but most were converted to serve as housing for workers in the Cogs. For hundreds of years the district slowly decayed. The final blow came on 9 Olarune 918 YK. The Glass Tower broke apart as it fell, and while most of the floating citadel landed in the Dagger River, some of its spires struck the district of Godsgate, shattering buildings and killing hundreds.
The city council had no intention of pouring gold into Lower Dura, and people of the district were left to repair the damage as best as they could. Many left, but some of the people were determined to remain in their ancestral homes or maintain their family businesses. Others couldn't afford to go anywhere else. The folk of Lower Dura also talk about that the spirits of the restless dead that haunt the worst ruins of the district, and the mysterious and apparently mad “ravers” who commune with them. Within a year, the district became known as Fallen, and ever since then the citizens of Sharn have shunned it.
The extent of the devastation varies considerably. In much of the district the original buildings remain largely intact; any gaps in walls and ceilings have been blocked off with boards or chunks of stone. A few businesses can still be found in these areas—taverns serving stew of questionable origin, crafters producing rough clothing and other necessities, merchants selling scavenged goods and materials. While the merchants of Fallen happily take any coins offered them, most are used to bartering with customers.
Where the spires of the falling Glass Tower crashed into the district, the buildings are shattered and broken, and segments of the Glass Tower jut from crushed temples and manors. The ravers inhabit these places, bloodthirsty feral folk who appeared after the disaster. Anyone who seeks the lost treasures of the Glass Tower must face the ravers—and perhaps the restless spirits of the dead. The city council also uses Fallen as a makeshift asylum, throwing the insane into the district, where they either join with the ravers or quickly die.

**The Ravers**: They hide in the secret places, scavenging among the ruins where the Glass Tower and Fallen mingle in a jumble of glass and stone. Few ever see the ravers, but the evidence of their passing can be discerned amid the wreckage of old. Whether they were once citizens of the district or some strange breed released from the Depths by the
shattering disaster, the ravers have been connected with the Day of Crystalfall and the troubled spirits said to haunt the mournful ruins. Most people never encounter the ravers, but those that do rarely survive to tell the tale.

**Blackstone Church**: There are many shattered temples in Fallen, and the broken statues of the Sovereign Host look down upon the ruins. Only one temple still operates among the ruins—Blackstone Church, Sharn’s first temple to the Silver Flame. Once this church was tended by dozens of acolytes and filled with offerings and relics. Today, dust and shadows hold sway, and a single priest administers to the Flame. Faela (N female half-elf expert 3/adept 2), not part of the church hierarchy of Sharn, saw a need and took up residence in the abandoned church. The Silver Flame is dedicated to fighting
the evil impulses of humanity as well as supernatural evil, and Faela does her best to counter the darkness she sees in Fallen. She provides nonmagical healing, acts as a mediator, and tries to defuse violent situations. While the people of Fallen don’t always listen to Faela, she is the only priest that has not abandoned them, and they generally look out for her. She devotes most of her time to the poorest and most wretched people of Fallen, trying to help these unfortunates rise up from squalor and make a better life. With her guidance, a number of the worst cases have even managed to leave Fallen and start a new life elsewhere in Sharn.

**Gate of Gold** (Tenement district)

> The great gate from which this district takes its name was stripped of its gilt plating many centuries ago. Old mansions and towers that once belonged to wealthy lords and merchants have been converted into tenement housing for the poor, and the inhabitants appear lean and hungry.
> 

Once home to many of the founding families of Sharn, Gate of Gold is now little more than a slum. Small and wretched townhomes crowd the crime ridden, extremely dangerous district.

**Malleon’s Gate** (Goblinoid slum)

> Chaos and noise. This district is run-down and filthy. Smoke fills the air and rats scurry in the shadows. Goblins are everywhere, squabbling, haggling, and shouting at one another. A bugbear forces his way through the crowd, flinging goblins aside. A trio of hobgoblin warriors emerges from a tavern and the crowd instantly parts.
> 

Sharn was built from the ruins of Shaarat, which was built atop old Duur’shaarat. All of these cities had one thing in common: Goblins. Malleon the Reaver enslaved the goblins of Duur’shaarat and forced them to build his city. King Galifar I offered the goblins freedom in exchange for their service as soldiers and laborers. For many of the goblins, there was little difference between life as a slave and life as a free laborer, but over the centuries some learned valuable trades and established their own businesses. While the goblins were officially citizens of Galifar, few humans enjoyed their company, and they found themselves congregating in Malleon’s Gate.
For centuries, goblins were the sole inhabitants of Malleon’s Gate. But with the rise of Darguun, all manner of goblinoids have emerged from the Seawall Mountains, and many have come to Sharn in search of opportunity. The relationship between the “city goblins” and these new immigrants is not entirely amicable; the Ghaal’dar bugbears and hobgoblins are used to dominating the goblins of Darguun, while the goblins of Sharn value their independence and rights as citizens. Daask and the recent immigrants from Droaam have brought new stability to the situation, as bugbear and goblin alike have to respect the power of a medusa or ogre mage. Nonetheless, Malleon’s Gate remains a very dangerous place. While most of the Sharn goblins happily do business with people of all races, anumber of goblin gangs, bugbear bullies, and unpleasant ogres enjoy taking out their frustrations on strangers.
The Sharn Watch stays out of Malleon’s Gate, but recently the medusa Gasslak (NE male medusa adept 1) has assumed the responsibility of maintaining order in the district. Gasslak only uses his power to deal with major disruptions; he doesn’t care if a few bugbears throw their weight around. But if adventurers start killing goblins by the score, Gasslak may take personal action or call on Daask to deal with the troublemakers. A few statues scattered around the streets give mute testimony to Gasslak’s power.
While many of the trades and services available in Malleon’s Gate are criminal in nature, the goblins also pursue a variety of crafts and professions. The district contains an old temple to the Sovereign Host, but the nine sovereigns are depicted as idealized goblinoids. Many of the Darguuls and Droaamites revere the Dark Six, and Gasslak has established a shrine to the Mockery in his abode.

**Bloodstone Inn**: A Darguun mercenary troop known as the Ja’khor (a goblin word translating to “Blackbloods”) uses this inn as a base of operations.

**Oldkeep** (Apartment townhomes)

> Over the course of centuries, old fortresses and garrison halls have been converted into apartment buildings and shelters for the poor.
> 

Once, Sharn’s City Watch operated out of a great set of towers and buildings known as the Keep, located in Lower Dura. When the City Watch spread out to Daggerwatch and the new garrisons springing up in other, higher-level districts, a number of land barons bought up the old property and converted it into housing. Now the place is called Oldkeep, in memory of its more glorious occupants. Most of the residents of Oldkeep work in Precarious, the Stores, or in Middle Dura. Many work for businesses with ties to the Boromars Clan.
Recently, bands of monsters with ties to Droaam have begun making surgical strikes in the district— thugs or burglars appear, hit a target with ties to the Boromars, and vanish into the Cogs. The Boromar Clan has hired Deneith mercenaries to patrol the district, but these guards can’t be everywhere at once. While they can handle a few gnolls or even an ogre, these mercenaries have a difficult time dealing with medusas or trolls.
All trades available in this district are illegal in nature. While most criminals do business in other districts, it may be possible to finda fence,a burglar, or a source for dreamlily or dragon’s blood in Oldkeep.

**Precarious** (Warehouse district)

> This district, dominated by massive warehouses that hold the cargo of the merchant ships that ply the Dagger River, consists of storage towers surrounded by tenements, flophouses, and an assortment of workhouses and businesses of questionable trade practices.
> 

The skydocks of Precarious lean out into the air high above the Dagger River. Vast mystical cranes and magic lifts use levitation and the power of Syrania to haul loads of cargo and people to and from the waterfront districts of Cliffside. An army of laborers transports goods between the docks and the warehouses in the district—both the massive storage towers and the smaller warehouses. While sailors generally find entertainment in Cliffside, Precarious houses a variety of crafts and services. Mills and workhouses make immediate use of the raw materials brought up from the Dagger River, while a few dingy taverns, gambling dens, and dreamlily dealers provide the workers with a chance to leave their cares—and their silver—behind. A variety of criminal trades are practiced in Precarious; the Boromar Clan has a hand in many of the businesses in the area due to their considerable investments in smuggling and shipping.
Precarious plays an important part in the economy of Sharn, and as a result the City Watch maintains an active presence in the district. The Watch maintains a small garrison in the area to watch for smugglers—or at least to ensure that the proper bribes are paid. The Watch also protects the tariff office, the large customs agency on the skydocks that handles taxation of goods. The Watch protects trade: petty crimes are not their concern, and Precarious is definitely a dangerous place for average citizens and visitors. Tourists and important visitors arriving by ship generally hire a Deneith escort at Grayflood to ensure safe passage through Lower Dura to the higher levels of the city.

**Dar San**: While there is little cultural contact between Riedra and Khorvaire, a considerable amount of trade flows across the Barren Sea. Most Riedrans distrust the people of Khorvaire, and over the years a number of Riedran merchants have purchased their own warehouses in Precarious, staffed with Riedran laborers and bookkeepers. Over the last century, a small Riedran community has taken root in Precarious; the inhabitants call in Dar San (“Far Port” in the Common tongue). Though they live in squalor, the Riedrans area proud people, and the lowliest laborer considers himself to be the equal of a duke of Khorvaire.
Among themselves, the Riedrans observe a strict social hierarchy. When one of the Inspired comes to Dar San, he or she is treated like an emperor. While the Riedrans generally hold the people of Khorvaire in contempt, they have an irrational hatred of the kalashtar and Adarans. The neighborhood has established its own militia—though some might call it a street gang—and any kalashtar or Adaran who comes to the neighborhood gets just one chance to leave peacefully.
Riedrans do not drink alcohol, nor do they use dreamlily or other narcotics; they view such behavior as an example of the corruption that grips Khorvaire.
Dar San features a number of businesses catering to the Riedran community, including the two exotic trades listed in the district description. These include Kasharath, a restaurant serving Riedran cuisine; a grocery stocked with Riedran foods and goods; and a shrine to the Inspired. Prominent citizens include Lanharath (LN male human expert 4), who represents the merchant consortium that owns the warehouses; Hasalakesh (LN male human commoner 3), a tailor specializing in Riedran clothing; and Kantarashtai (LN female human expert 3), Dar San’s resident healer. Lanharath typically serves as the leader of the community, but the true power rests with the Inspired warrior Hamatash (LE male inspired rogue 3/soulknife 3). Hamatash maintains a low profile, but he is the disposable tool of the Dreaming Dark—if the Dark needs to take some action without revealing the existence of their sleeper agents, they use Hamatash and the Riedran militia.

**House Kundarak**: House Kundarak owns five warehouses in Precarious. These warehouses are especially secure, combining alarm, seal of the magi, and glyph of warding with mundane and magic traps. These warehouses cost twice as much to use as their mundane counterparts, but merchants with a serious interest in security readily pay the price.

**The Stores** (Warehouse district)

> Wide storage towers dominate this district, surrounded by tenements and smaller warehouses. The streets are full of wagons and laborers hauling goods to and from the skydocks of Precarious.
> 

The Stores district has much in common with Precarious. However, the Stores is not actually built on the cliff side, and the Watch focuses its attention and resources on Precarious. The result is that the Stores are slightly more dangerous than Precarious, and smugglers are more likely to hide their goods in these warehouses. The Boromar Clan has strong
interests in this district, and thus a considerable halfling population can be found here.