#location #district [[Sharn]]

For most travelers, Tavick’s Landing is the gateway to Sharn. The Orien lightning rail station at Terminus brings in hundreds of travelers each day, and many more arrive via the Old Road at Wroann’s Gate. In many ways, Tavick’s Landing is the most eclectic quarter of Sharn, blending residential areas with commercial and entertainment districts that cater to the traders, travelers, and tourists who pass through the city. During the Last War, foreigners were carefully monitored as they entered the city, and even today the effects of the war can still be felt. An entire district in Lower Tavick’s Landing has been converted to house Cyran refugees and other people dislocated by the war.

Commander lyanna ir’Talan has been purging corrupt officers from the Tavick’s garrison of the Sharn Watch in recent years. As a result, members of Tavick’s allotment of the City Watch are the most likely to be helpful to adventurers, and least likely to take bribes or practice extortion.

### **Middle Tavick's Landing**
Character: An eclectic blend of businesses and residences catering to people from all levels of society.

Middle Tavick’s Landing has something for everyone. It is a crossroads for travelers, traders, and explorers, and includes a host of inns, taverns, shops, and reasonably priced residences. With a few notable exceptions—namely, the Graywall district— the people of Middle Tavick’s Landing are generally friendly and welcoming toward outsiders, quite unlike their counterparts in the upper ward.

**Cornerstone** (Tavern district)

> The streets are full of noise and laughter, as people stagger into and out of the many inns and taverns of the district. A large arena occupies the center of Cornerstone, and occasionally a ragged cheer rises up from the amphitheater.

For those people who want a slightly more respectable level of entertainment than that offered in Dragoneyes, Cornerstone offers a host of inns and taverns— they may not be the best in Sharn, but prices are cheap and a few at least have good food and comfortable beds. The district has a strong interest in sporting events; quite a few windchases are based in Cornerstone, and there is always activity at the great arena. While the large gambling halls are located in Dragoneyes, there are always people (mostly aligned with the Boromar Clan) taking bets in taverns and at the arenas, and a character who wishes to place a few silvers at risk will have no trouble finding a taker.

**The Cornerstone**: “Cornerstone” is a district in Middle Tavick’s Landing. “The Cornerstone” is the massive arena in that district. The Cornerstone holds a wide variety of sporting events, ranging from foot races to equine jousts and skyblade matches. When circuses come to town, they often perform in the Cornerstone arena. The Cornerstone is considerably more respectable than the Hollow Tower of Hareth’s Folly, and the competitors are generally nobles or celebrities; you can’t come in off the street and expect to participate in a race at the Cornerstone.

**Stone Trees**: This small arena is the one formal Hrazhak forum in Sharn. There is a considerable shifter population in the district, and over the centuries these crafters and merchants raised a considerable sum to invest in the arena. While it is far smaller that the Cornerstone, it has an extremely versatile design, allowing different configurations of obstacles to be set up for each match. These obstacles include unusual metal and stone sculptures designed to mimic trees—hence the name of the arena.

**Tooth and Nail**: This rough and tumble tavern is run by a shifter named Boz (NG male shifter commoner 4). While it caters to the shifter community of Tavick’s Landing, Boz welcomes customers of all races, and anyone willing to discuss Hrazhak always finds a warm welcome. This is the best place to come to bet on Hrazhak matches or to find out about the shifters of Sharn. While in Tooth and Nail, a character willing to play along receives a +1 bonus on any History check made to learn information about shifters. A shifter receives a additional +1 bonus.

**Dancing Shadows** (Inn district)

> Tourists, travelers, and merchants fill the streets of this enormous district. Inns and taverns stretch as far as the eye can see. The quality is not exceptional, but there is no shortage of places to stay.
> 

Dancing Shadows provides food, lodging, and basic services to the many people who arrive in Sharn every day. None of the inns or taverns are especially remarkable; in this case quality is more significant than quantity. Adventurers tend to stay in Deathsgate, while the wealthy often go to Silvergate in Upper Tavick’s Landing. Dancing Shadows caters to the commoners and traveling merchants who simply need a place to stay at a reasonable price.

**Deathsgate** (Adventurer’s quarter)

> People from all walks of life and all corners of Khorvaire can be found in Deathsgate. Former soldiers and war wizards rub shoulders with explorers and aspiring artificers, and conversations in half a dozen languages can be heard at any given moment.
> 

Officially, Deathsgate takes its name from its proximity to Halden’s Tomb; a massive bridge connects the district to the necropolis, and funerary services are often held in the small temples of the district. But over the centuries, Deathsgate has become a home for those who challenge death on a daily basis—explorers, adventurers, and mercenaries of all stripes. Whether they are looking for companionship, spellcasting, or equipment, a party of adventurers should be able to find what they seek in Deathsgate.
Like its counterpart in Upper Dura, Clifftop, Deathsgate offers an exceptional range of services, but these are rarely the best the city has to offer. Many magic items are available, but the ceiling on prices keeps characters from acquiring exceptionally powerful items. However, the shops of Deathsgate are more than happy to buy or sell partially used charged items. The pawnshops generally offer 45% of value for almost any sort of goods, except those that are obviously stolen. Occasionally a fence can be found here, though usually this requires a trip to Dragoneyes or Lower Dura.
While similar to Clifftop in many respects, Deathsgate has a less savory reputation. While the explorers of Clifftop often seek to gain knowledge or to help people in need, Deathsgate caters to those who simply love gold or bloodshed. The people of Deathsgate are not necessarily evil—but they don’t care about the moral consequences of their actions.
A number of dragonmarked houses maintain outposts in Deathsgate. House Jorasco maintains a large house of healing and does a brisk trade. House Deneith has a small enclave from which it recruits many of its Blademark warriors. House Sivis has an office of the Speakers Guild, including a message station, translation services, and a few barristers who specialize in the many concerns of adventurers.

**Deathsgate Guild**: Established 200 years ago, this is a guild for adventurers and soldiers of fortune—a place for people with talent and courage to hone their skills and enjoy the company of like-minded folk. Deathsgate Guild adventurers are mostly 2nd—5th level characters with neutral or evil alignments, and most served in the Last War. The members of Deathsgate Guild have a strong rivalry with the adventurers of the Clifftop Guild, and Deathsgaters often start fights with their counterparts, both in Sharn and while out on adventures.
The Deathsgate Guild enclave includes a small shrine to the Mockery, a god many of the Deathsgaters secretly revere. However, this shrine is carefully hidden, and new members are vetted before they are allowed to find out about the shrine.

**Karr’Aashta’s Investigations**: Karr’Aashta (NE male human rogue 5/master inquisitive 2) runs a small agency whose members can find out anything a client wants to know—for a price. Karr’Aashta has a reputation for taking on cases that the other Tharashk inquisitives won't touch, and he specializes in jobs dealing with the Cogs. However, ‘Aashta has a secret—he is a follower of the Dragon Below. The Cults of the Dragon Below are a factious bunch, and often fight one another. As a result, ‘Aashta’s allegiance could help conceal the activities of a cult or lead them to the adventurers—or he could provide the adventurers with information they need to locate a cult and upset its plans, to serve the ends of his own sect.

**The Guild of Starlight and Shadow**: The most impressive building in Deathsgate is the Guild of Starlight and Shadow, the smaller of Sharn’s wizard circles. This small tower seems to be formed of pure night; illusion permeates the stone, depicting a dark sky filled with stars.
While some mages simply join the guild to further their arcane studies, many are willing to sell their talents. Generally, spells of up to 3rd level can be obtained at standard prices, and 4th-level spells may be available. However, there may be a 24-hour delay before a specific spell can be obtained. Members of the Guild have fewer scruples about the use of magic than their counterparts in the Esoteric Order of Aureon, and for an extra 25% of the cost, most wizards are willing to cast a spell without asking any questions.

**Redblade’s**: This tavern caters to members of the Deathsgate adventurer’s guild, though anyone can buy ale here. The tavern has a few special services to offer that make it particularly popular with its usual clients. “Redblade” Rraac (NE male half-orc barbarian 4/adept 1) owns the tavern. He retired from fighting after his age began to slow him down, and now he leads the Deathsgate Guild services to the Mockery. Rraac’s wife Myssian (NE female human expert 5) is a skilled alchemist who maintains a workshop in the back of the tavern, and Rraac sells wrath, silverhaste, and a range of poisons to his favored clients.
Other businesses in Deathsgate include Ancient Blades, a mystical forge that deals in magic arms and armor with a value of up to 35,000 gp; Dark Words, a dealer in scrolls; Bottled Silver, a potion merchant; Maynar’s Menagerie, a Vadalis-owned business dealing in exotic pets and animal companions; and The Labyrinth, a ramshackle old shop that nonetheless has a wide assortment of useful wondrous items.

**Graywall** (Average residential, Karrn)

> The people of Graywall are somber and serious, and outsiders receive a cold welcome. A visitor with a good ear notes the predominance of Karrn accents and spots Karrn features among the inhabitants of the district.
> 

The culture of Karrnath existed long before the Last War, and in Sharn it found a home in the Graywall district. As Sharn grew and became an important center for trade and commerce in the kingdom of Galifar, and as Karrn merchants and crafters settled in the city, many made their home in Graywall. Today Graywall is a quiet, close-knit community. The local families know each other well, and they dislike outsiders—with the notable exception of visitors from Karrnath, who receive a warm welcome and demands for the latest news from “the old country.” In practice, the people of Graywall are unfriendly toward most outsiders, but Friendly toward anyone of Karrn descent. Due to prejudices and incidents that occurred during the Last War, anyone attached to the Sharn City Watch or the Guardians of the Gate receives a—10 penalty on any Diplomacy checks made in the region. In general, City Watch patrols avoid Graywall; the people maintain a small local militia that patrols the district and settles disputes.
For the most part, Graywall is a peaceful district. Most of the inhabitants are honest, hardworking people. However, the people of the district share something besides Karrn descent, something that sets them apart from the Karrn immigrants in Middle Menthis—most of the people of Graywall are devoted followers of the Blood of Vol. They keep their religion secret, sad to see the way in which it has been suppressed even in their homeland. But they continue to carry on the old traditions. And even if the people of Graywall won't actively assist the Order of the Emerald Claw, they certainly do provide agents of the Claw with shelter and support.

**The Bloody Mug**: The sign above the door of this inn displays a tilted clay mug, with what is presumably red wine trickling over the edge. This inn caters to visitors from Karrnath, and the people of the district often gather in the common room to share a tankard of Nightwood ale and listen to traveler’s tales, or engage in traditional Karrn chants and dances. A Karrn character receives a +1 circumstance bonus on all Gather Information and Knowledge (local) checks made in The Bloody Mug.

**Slogar’s**: The Slogars were one of the first families to settle in Graywall, and their restaurant has served the community for hundreds of years. The food isn’t fancy and the ambience is rather gloomy, but the prices are quite reasonable. If you like traditional Karrn peasant cuisine—which, truth be told, is usually an acquired taste—it’s hard to find better.

**The House of Hazal**: The largest estate in the district belongs to the Hazal family. The Hazals made their fortune investing in the smelting industry, and Hazal caravans still bring in ore from the family’s northern holdings on a regular basis. But while the Hazals have always been community leaders, they have also been religious leaders. Beyond a facade large enough to entertain guests and outsiders, the house of Hazal conceals Sharn’s only temple to the Blood of Vol. There are a number of secret passages throughout the district that lead to the temple, and every Zol the faithful come in shifts to give blood and hear the word of Vol. During the holiest days—such as the Tanarath, when the moon Aryth is eclipsed by Sypheros—almost all of the faithful gather at once.
The current master of the house and priest of the Blood is Lan Hazal. Lan’s wife died recently, and there is a great deal of interest in the community as to who might become the next Lady Hazal. Lan is a charismatic and wealthy man, and he is very careful to conceal his impressive mystical powers from the world at large. Unless there is no other alternative, he only performs magic in the depths of the temple. He takes the use of magic very seriously, and rarely uses spells even to help his parishioners. He believes that people should be able to solve their own problems, and while he offers spiritual advice and even financial assistance to other members of the community, he only uses magic for the most serious situations.
Lan is not an evil man, and he does not always approve of the actions of the Order of the Emerald Claw. However, he feels that it is not his place to question the undead champions of Vol. He has an astonishing gift for enchantment, and he spends much of his time producing magic items and weapons for Lady Tarra’az (see page 90). His other primary interest is extending his family library. Lan has invested a fortune to recover scrolls and texts from Xen’drik, seeking more information about the origin of the first vampires. He might hire a party to locate a tome on his behalf, or cross paths with a character who has accidentally acquired a book he needs; alternately, the party might need a rare book that can only be found in the Hazal library.
The house of Hazal also contains the stores of blood donated by the members of the church, which are used to sustain Lady Tarra’az and visiting vampires.

**Kenton** (Apartment townhomes)

> Kenton is a working class district. The long halls surrounding the central towers are divided into dozens of tiny apartments, home to the laborers and commoners who keep the city running. The few people on the streets are generally in a hurry, either heading to work or just to somewhere more interesting than Kenton.
> 

Kenton is an unremarkable residential district. Apartments in Kenton are reasonably priced, and it’s not a bad place to live. The architecture is functional and bland, and there are few comforts to be found in a Kenton apartment besides four walls and a roof. One notable feature of Kenton is its relatively high shifter population; Caine Spire and Helas Keep are two residential towers that are almost entirely populated by shifters.

**Little Barrington** (Average residential)

> Little Barrington is a pleasant residential district. The homes are small but comfortable and well designed, and the inhabitants are generally friendly and cheerful.
> 

The successful middle class of Tavick’s Landing live in Little Barrington. Overseers from the Blackbone Cogs, junior barristers and aspiring government functionaries— anyone who can’t afford a home in the Upper Wards but is too successful to live in Kenton or one of the lower districts. It is quiet and peaceful, and frequent patrols by the Sharn Watch ensure that it stays that way.

**Tavick’s Market** (Marketplace)

> Traders and travelers fill the open market, offering foods, crafts, and spirits from across Khorvaire. The crowd is loud and bustling, but the City Watch helps to maintain order and discipline.
> 

Terminus lies just below Tavick’s Market, and goods from across Khorvaire come in on lightning rail and are shipped directly up to the open market. This district is an excellent place to find clothes, crafts, and goods from the Five Nations and the younger kingdoms. Farmers from the surrounding countryside typically prefer to sell their goods in Tavick’s Market, as the Bazaar of Dura is dangerous and North Market is expensive. Most farmers come to market on Far and Sar each week, and these are excellent times to purchase produce and livestock. A market permit costs 1 sp, and the Sharn Watch makes certain that merchants have their permits.
While the open market is the primary attraction in Tavick’s Market, there are many permanent crafters, restaurants, and taverns scattered throughout the district. Most of this is average fare, but there are a few diamonds in the rough.