#location #city [[Karrnath]]

Rekkenmark is a large city in Karrnath standing on Scions Sound across the water from Thaliost.

From the halls of Rekkenmark Academy, one of the premier military training institutions on the continent, the cliffs that border both sides of Scions Sound can be seen. The large city of Rekkenmark has stared into the face of one of Karrnath’s most fervent enemies since the kingdom of Galifar collapsed and the children of Jarot went to war. Perhaps the most telling moment of the Last War occurred in 899 YK when King Kaius I ordered the destruction of the great White Arch Bridge to prevent an invasion by severing the passage across the sound. As the massive stone blocks, decorative statues, lightning rail conductor stones, and distinctive golden arches fell into the sound, the people of Rekkenmark realized that the Galifar kingdom had truly come undone. Today, the remains of the shattered bridge jut out over the cliffs as a stark reminder of both the connection that once existed and the war that ended Galifar’s dream.

Rekkenmark’s history as the training ground for generals and other military officers goes back to the second Galifar king (Karrn ir’Wynarn), who dedicated the facility that eventually became the Rekkenmark Academy. The city is rich in tradition and old-world charm, with much of Rekkenmark harkening back to the glory days of early Galifar. Unfortunately, the city has also seen its share of death and destruction. Reminders of the infamous air raid of 874 YK can still be seen, especially in the cliffside neighborhood of Draco Hill. Here, a number of buildings remain devastated, riddled by small boulders dropped from above by wyverns working with Thrane.

A lightning rail line crosses the Karrn River to connect Rekkenmark with Korth. In addition, various trails, paths, and trade roads lead out of the city toward the interior of the nation. The high, sheer cliffs that border Scions Sound make access to the waterway almost impossible, so Rekkenmark has no ports or water traffic to speak of. A Lyrandar airship mooring tower rises above the city, though it gets only occasional use, since most airships head directly to Korth upon crossing Karrnath’s borders from the west or north.

- **Rekkenmark Academy**: Originally established to produce the greatest military officers for the Kingdom of Galifar, the academy came under Karrnath's control during the Last War, and only recently has reopened to students from other nations.
- Airship Dock:
- Lightning Rail Station: