#location #region [[Eberron]]

The Thunder Sea lies between Khorvaire, Xen’drik, and Aerenal. It takes its name from the unnatural storms that rage over some areas, never-ending tempests fueled by the elemental power of Lamannia. As dangerous as these waters are, this is a crucial crossroads for trade, and there’s a constant stream of ships flowing between Sharn, Stormreach, and Pylas Talaer. It’s here that the sahuagin first arose, the seat of their greatest civilization.

In the dawn of time, the Thunder Sea was the domain of the Lurker in Shadow. This overlord embodies the fear of the unknown, of the evil that could be lurking just beyond sight, and the fear that our friends could be secretly scheming against us. The Lurker created the aboleths, who conquered and dominated creatures of the deep—giants, dragons, and sahuagin. The struggle against the overlords played out beneath the water just as it did above. Dragons battled krakens and giants fought aboleths, while the sahuagin consumed the fallen on both sides. The wrath of the Lurker shattered the ocean floor. Dragons were impaled on spires of demonglass. But in time, the overlords were bound and the aboleths fled into the deepest abysses.

Today, the sahuagin of the Eternal Dominion are spread far and wide across the floor of the Thunder Sea. Their mightiest cities are built around—and into—massive slumbering creatures known as kar’lassa (leviathans), “great dreamers.” The merfolk live in the upper waters above the sahuagin. Their permanent settlements are tied to manifest zones, and they perform rituals to contain the threat posed by these zones. The other major power in the Thunder Sea is the Valraean Protectorate, the domain of the sea elves. These elves laid claim to the waters around Aerenal, conquering the local sahuagin and other species, and bending them to their will. The Dominion sahuagin despise the Valraean elves, but thus far, the power of the Undying Court has repelled every assault.

### **Ports and Travel**

The Thunder Sea is a critical path for trade. Any traffic with Xen’drik crosses the Thunder Sea. In addition to the ships of House Lyrandar (both elemental galleons with dragonmarked captains and mundane ships licensed by the house), the Thunder Sea sees traffic from Aerenal, Zilargo, Breland, and Riedra. The most important ports include Pylas Maradal (Valenar), Pylas Talaer (Aerenal), Sharn (Breland), Stormreach (Xen’drik), Trolanport (Zilargo), Wyvernskull (Darguun), and
Zarash’ak (Shadow Marches).

These major ports see both commercial, diplomatic, and military traffic. Aereni merchants carry shipments of exotic lumber, Riedran vessels are laden with crysteel and dragonshards, Lyrandar ships carry all manner of trade goods, and smugglers sneak barrels of kuryeva and tilxin blood into hidden coves. While the standard map of Khorvaire focuses on
these major ports, there are also countless smaller ports and fishing villages scattered along the coastline.

The masters of the Thunder Sea— the sahuagin— don’t want dryskins blundering through their territory. Traveling directly along the coastline is reasonably safe, and local fisherfolk don’t need to negotiate with sahuagin every time they set sail; the sahuagin don’t lay claim to the waters within 6 miles of Khorvaire’s coast, and permit fishing an additional 20 miles beyond that. But crossing the Thunder Sea is an entirely different story. Setting aside the territorial claims of the sahuagin, the sea is filled with deadly hazards— endless storms, demonglass spires, and hungry monstrosities.

The Eternal Dominion has established specific routes that captains must follow, safe from hazards and monitored by the Dominion. Captains who wish to use these routes must obtain beacons of passage— common magic items that tell the sahuagin their travel is authorized, charged to last for a set time. Even with a beacon, there are places— such as Shargon’s Teeth— where a wise captain pays for the services of a sahuagin or merfolk guide.

Some brave (or foolish) souls deviate from these approved routes, whether desiring speed or avoiding the cost of local customs and the price of a beacon. The Thunder Sea is nearly the size of Khorvaire itself, and the sahuagin aren’t everywhere; however, those regions shunned by the sahuagin and merfolk are usually avoided with good reason, and smugglers may face dangerous environmental hazards or hungry monstrosities.

### The Great Dreamers: **Kar’lassa**

The greatest wonders of the Thunder Sea lie deep below the surface, all but unknown to the people of Khorvaire. The kar’lassa are enormous beasts— miles in length— half-buried and sleeping in the floor of the Thunder Sea. Not even the dragons of Argonnessen know the origin of the kar’lassa. They’ve slept since the beginning of recorded history, and are immune to all forms of divination magic. They are said to have been crafted by Eberron, great Leviathans of the earth, potentially to guard against some future threat.

All that’s known for certain is that the kar’lassa are massive, immortal monstrosities... and that each is bound to one of the planes. Each kar’lassa radiates the effects of a powerful manifest zone, extending up to 13 miles. The appearance of each kar’lassa reflects the plane they’re tied to; the kar’lassa of Shavarath is a massive draconic beast with steel scales, while the kar’lassa of Fernia is a serpent of embers, water forever boiling against its skin. But the strangest aspect of the
kar’lassa is their dreams. When the kar’lassa dream, they don’t dream in Dal Quor. Instead, each kar’lassa dreams in the plane it’s tied to— and more wondrous yet, each great dreamer draws in the spirits of dreaming mortals. Any creature that dreams within 13 miles of a kar’lassa—including unwary sailors passing above, if any are bold enough to go off the approved travel routes— is pulled into the behemoth’s dream, instead of dreaming in Dal Quor. So, for example, anyone who sleeps in the Dominion city of Hal’iri dreams their dreams in Irian. While dreaming in this way, a creature is only present as a spirit, and is immune to the negative environmental effects of that plane; so a mortal dreamer isn’t hurt by the extreme heat of Fernia or the cold of Risia. Even if a dreamer dies in their dream from other causes, they just wake up. This is still dreaming; unless the dreamer is capable of lucid dreaming, they have little control of their actions and will likely only remember fragments of the experience.

Twelve kar’lassa have been discovered; one for each plane, aside from Dal Quor. The sahuagin of the Eternal Dominion have built their largest cities around eight of these great dreamers, though they’ve shunned the kar’lassa associated with Mabar, Xoriat, Thelanis, and Risia. The sahuagin harvest biomatter from the kar’lassa, and these substances are the fuel that drives their industry.

The kar’lassa are a source of wonder, not monsters to be fought. To all tests, they appear to be immortal, and regenerate damage quickly. Spells such as stone to flesh or disintegrate only work on a tiny sliver of the kar’lassa, and even that’s quickly restored. If one of these ancient slumbering monstrosities were to rise, it would be an almost unstoppable force of destruction, and destroy the Dominion city in the process. If one of these vast creatures emerged onto land, it could easily devastate cities without even meaning to.

### The Eternal Dominion: Sahuagin

Any sailor in Stormreach can tell you that the sahuagin worship the Devourer, who they call Shargon. But this is only part of the story. Sahuagin storm priests tell the common tale of how gods and demons fought in the first age, but their story doesn’t end with the binding of the overlords. Once the fiends were defeated, the Sovereigns were determined to take their place and rule as tyrants. The sahuagin Sha’argon was a bold hunter and mighty warrior. He stalked the Sovereigns of the natural world, Arra’ai and Ba’alor. Sha’argon trapped them and consumed them, claiming their power as his own. The other Sovereigns were angry, but none could outwit Sha’argon, and he already had the power of two gods; so they fled to the world above and beyond, and to this day, they flee when the mighty hunter draws near.

Sha’argon is the greatest of the gods. He sets the laws of the world, and they are cruel. Life is an endless struggle. The weak will perish in the storm or be consumed by the mighty. Those with cunning and courage can conquer the world itself, and the victor has the right to devour their vanquished foe. The sahuagin of the Eternal Dominion take these messages to heart. There is no foe they cannot conquer, no power they cannot claim. They have forged a dominion from the bones of krakens and the blood of the kar’lassa, an empire that will never end.

If the Dominion wished to conquer the surface world, it could do so easily—or so the sahuagin say. But to what end? Dryskins are pathetic barbarians, weak in both body and mind. The Eternal Dominion seeks grander prey, power worthy of Sha’argon. Some seek to consume the overlords; others plan the conquest of worlds beyond the world.

The society of the Eternal Dominion is split into three primary forces:

- The **Ra’har** (“body”) is the military. The sahuagin view life as conflict, and are zealous about maintaining a strong military. When there is no active conflict, they engage in war games and engage in gladiatorial combat—both locally, and in a league against the other cities—to entertain the people.
- The **Ta’har** (“mind”) are the scholars, scientists, and priests— which, among the sahuagin, are all branches of a single path. Alchemy and sorcery are core sciences in the Dominion. The sahuagin recognize divine magic as a resource, and excel at the aggressive cultivation of the faith required to channel it. Ta’har scholars advise the Ra’har, using the lessons of history to drive military strategy, while Ta’har artificers work with the Su’har to maintain the infrastructure of the cities.
- The **Su’har** (“heart”) maintain the civic infrastructure. They maintain and expand the cities, ensure the steady flow of supplies, and organize the spawning pools and the education and evolution of the young. The Ta’har develop new techniques, but it’s the Su’har who turn the wheels of industry.

**Territory**

The Eternal Dominion claims the entirety of the Thunder Sea as its territory, and maintains outposts across the sea, often
carved into stone spires that rise up to the surface. However, most of their population is concentrated in the great cities of the Dominion. These lie on the seafloor, thousands of feet below the surface, far beyond the reach of sunlight—yet illuminated by sahuagin-engineered bioluminescent coral. Each city is named after the kar’lassa it’s built around, and the kar’lassa in turn are in turn named for the plane they’re bound to.

- Hal’daan (Daanvi). The city of Hal’daan is the administrative heart of the Dominion. Here, the leaders of the Su’har develop the civic models used throughout the Dominion. This city also holds the bureaucratic archives of the Dominion.
- Hal’dol (Dolurrh). The smallest of the great cities, Hal’dol is a center for necromantic research. The skulls of great leaders and priests from across the Dominion are preserved in the Bone Library, where sahuagin mediums can use speak with dead to consult with them.
- Hal’fer (Fernia). This region has an abundance of geothermal vents, and due to Fernia’s influence, it’s also a source of pure elemental flame that burns underwater. Hal’fer is an industrial center working with heat and steam; it’s the primary source of metal goods, and mints the currency used with surface dwellers.
- Hal’iri (Irian). This is a stronghold of the Ta’har, driving mystical research and holding the largest temples in the Dominion— both in reality and in the kar’lassa’s dream. Many priests train in Hal’iri, and its people have grand dreams of what the Dominion can become. It’s a center for exploring lofty goals, such as defeating the Valraean Protectorate, consuming the overlords to gain their power, and perhaps even conquering the planes.
- Hal’kyth (Kythri). The influence of Kythri supports magic tied to change and transmutation, and these are vital to the society of the Dominion. Hal’kyth is the heart of the alchemical industry. While all great cities harvest the blood of the kar’lassa, it is Hal’kyth that has the greatest capacity for refining it. Though the Dominion is slow to innovate, the artificers of Hal’kyth are an exception, and they continue to develop new techniques; the plasmids were first magebred in Hal’kyth.
- Hal’laman (Lamannia). The flora and fauna of this region are unnaturally fertile. Hal’laman is a center for all forms of animal husbandry, and also holds the largest spawning pools of the Dominion. When Lamannia is coterminous, growth rates spike dramatically; it’s always a struggle to keep the city safe during these times, with aggressive beasts swept into frenzies and vegetation becoming shambling mounds.
- Hal’shavar (Shavarath). This is the military seat of the Dominion, where the finest barons and strategists are trained. Here, the Ra’har of Hal’shavar establish the military traditions used throughout the Dominion. Mock battles and other grand spectacles are carried out in the grand arena of Hal’shavar.
- Hal’syra (Syrania). This is the center for commerce and trade with other cultures. Hal’syra even has a rarely-used quadrant enchanted so surface dwellers can breathe within it. This city is the source of the ambassadors, envoys, and merchants who deal with surface dwellers and other cultures, and it’s here that the scholars of the Ta’har study surface dwellers and debate the best ways to deal with them. These major cities are each home to hundreds of thousands of sahuagin, and the total population of the Dominion is well into the millions. Farms and other small communities scattered between the great cities are often largely inhabited by locathah, with a core group of sahuagin overlords. In between, there are large stretches with no humanoid population; here, ruins of the giants and remnants of other fallen civilizations might be found.

### Karakala: Merfolk

Children of the Endless Ocean of Lamannia, the merfolk have been drawn into Eberron time and again during grand
convergences between the planes. Merfolk can be found across the seas of Eberron, and every kara—tribe—has its own
traditions and customs. The primary merfolk culture in the Thunder Sea is Karakala, whose members call themselves the Kalamer.

The Thunder Sea has many strong manifest zones to Lamannia, the source of the endless storms that give the region its name. Nearly two centuries ago, an unusually strong convergence amplified the effects of the manifest zones. Both the Valraean Protectorate and the Eternal Dominion were lashed by the power of Lamannia, and there were fears that the barrier between worlds could be permanently damaged. At the height of this disaster, Kalamer merfolk were pulled through from Lamannia; finding themselves without a means to return home, they used their rites and rituals to contain
and repair the damage. These wild zones in the upper waters have always been a threat, and once it became clear that
Karakala could mitigate the danger, both the sahuagin and sea elves agreed to give them freedom to travel in the upper
waters, so long as they managed the manifest zones. Today, many Kalamer consider the Thunder Sea their new home, and travel from zone to zone, practicing their primal traditions. In a sense, they’re nomadic gardeners, preserving the wild. As they’re recognized as neutral by both the Dominion and the Protectorate, they often serve as messengers, couriers, and mediators, carrying news and negotiating on behalf of these powers— an important role, as the sahuagin refuse to speak directly to the sea elves. The reach of Karakala extends along the southern coast of Khorvaire, and the arrival of a Kalamer bard is often a celebrated event in small Brelish or Zil fishing villages; more than once, they’ve managed to settle disputes between fisherfolk and the Dominion.

Overall, Karakala is a neutral force, concerned above all with traveling between the manifest zones—which they call
the roots—and performing the rituals that keep them stable. However, there are Kalamer pods who quietly despise those who bend nature for their own benefit— dryskin, sahuagin, and sea elf alike—and especially oppose the use of elemental binding; these have come to see House Lyrandar as their foes. There are Kalamer who dream of someday cleansing the oceans of all traces of industry, of unleashing the full power of the manifest zones instead of keeping them contained. To date, Karakala has maintained its peaceful course, but it’s always possible that their darker impulses will rise to the fore— that they’ll show House Lyrandar and the nations of the world the true power of the storm.

### The Valraean Protectorate: Sea Elves

Long ago, the waters along the western coast of Aerenal were inhabited by peaceful locathah. The sahuagin of Sha’argon’s Kingdom—a predecessor to the Eternal Dominion— steadily advanced toward Aerenal, conquering and assimilating the locathah. Concerned by the obvious aggression of the sahuagin, the Sibling Kings acted to secure the waters around Aerenal, establishing a buffer zone that would ensure that Sha’argon’s Kingdom posed no direct threat. The line of Valraea was chosen, and through the power of the Undying Court, its nobles were physically transformed into sea elves, gaining iridescent skin and the ability to breathe beneath the water.

Initially, the line of Valraea served as protectors and advisors, organizing the locathah and helping them construct
superior defenses. Then the attacks began. The conflict slowly escalated; the harder the locathah fought, the more it drove sahuagin determination to claim the region. Valraean priests brought the full power of the Undying Court to bear against the attackers, and Sha’argon’s Kingdom couldn’t match their transcendent might. A generation later the sahuagin returned, and the elves retaliated, using the divine power of the Undying Court to seize the Sha’argon border fortresses. It was at this time— when the region claimed included both sahuagin and locathah lands—that the elves officially declared it the Valraean Protectorate. According to the proclamation, the Undying Court would protect all peoples of the Protectorate and the line of Valraea would provide them with guidance and security... all of which was a gentle way of saying that the people were now under Aereni rule and would be forced to embrace Aereni customs. While this decision was driven in part by a desire to ensure the island’s security, it may have also been tied to the discovery of dragonshard deposits along the seabed— both fallen Siberys shards and indications of deep Khyber shards.

The next thousand years brought chaos, as the sahuagin— first Sha’argon’s Kingdom, then the Eternal Dominion— continued to attack and the Valraean elves continued to retaliate by conquering additional sahuagin territories. But the power of the Undying Court is geographically limited. While clerics can draw on the power of the Court to cast spells
anywhere in the world, the transcendent might that can repel dragons or defeat sahuagin armies has a limited range. When the elves pressed beyond that, they suffered terrible losses; and yet, the Dominion couldn’t challenge the elves within the Court’s sphere of influence. This began a long stalemate that continues to this day. The Eternal Dominion has launched numerous attacks over the last few centuries, testing the power of the Undying Court, but thus far, the might of the deathless has been sufficient to repel every sahuagin assault.

### The Darkest Depths: Aboleths

There are places where even sahuagin fear to swim. Like all the overlords, the Lurker in Shadow couldn’t be destroyed, only imprisoned. It’s bound in Khyber, deep below the center of the Thunder Sea. But there are passages to its prison spread across the region, in vast rifts and lightless tunnels. The servants of the Lurker linger in these places, building their strength and watching the world above.

The chief servants of the Lurker in Shadow are the aboleths. Though driven from the sea itself, they’ve maintained a shadow
empire in the tunnels below the seabed. Across eras, they’ve collected their subjects—locathah, sahuagin, withered storm giants, people of the Five Nations stolen from their ships. Those aboleths with little interest in humanoids instead craft aberrations and monstrosities, like the chuul. While the aboleths have no direct ties to the Lords of Dust, there are fiends among their allies—shadow demons and other spirits created by the Lurker in Shadows. The aboleths also possess untold riches and powerful artifacts from the Age of Demons— tools they can use to arm their allies, or to motivate with greed and bribery when direct mental domination isn’t an option.

The aboleths have risen en masse in the past, bringing down previous civilizations, fomenting war between the sahuagin and
the giants. There have been dark centuries where the aboleths have ruled the sea—though these days were long before the rise of Galifar, and humanity knows little about the threat.

### Random Encounters

| d12 | Thunder Sea Surprise |
| --- | --- |
| 1 | What seems to be a powerful storm is actually a Lamannian manifest zone with air elementals within its radius. The storm has strong winds (see chapter 5 of the Dungeon Master’s Guide) and sporadic lightning strikes. A creature within 5 feet of a lightning strike takes 3d10 lightning damage, or half damage on a successful DC 13 Dexterity saving throw. |
| 2 | A Lyrandar elemental galleon is drifting on the water. There’s nobody visible on the deck, and no response to signals. |
| 3 | Demonglass spikes in the water threaten to cripple the ship unless the acting captain succeeds at a DC 13 Intelligence (Water Vehicles) check. There’s a sahuagin outpost on a stone spire in the center of the field of teeth; they may be willing to assist stranded sailors. |
| 4 | What at first appears to be a small island is a mass of floating vegetation — sargassum and exotic plants flowing from a manifest zone tied to Lamannia. Vines grow at an unnatural rate to entangle a ship that gets too close. Other vessels can be seen trapped deeper in the mass; how long have they been there? Could there be any survivors? |
| 5 | A dragon turtle surfaces nearby. Is it patrolling on behalf of the Dominion? Is it supporting a merfolk community? Or is it just curious? |
| 6 | The waters are unnaturally cold, and chunks of ice can be seen ahead. This is a manifest zone tied to Risia; icebergs pose danger, but there could be ancient ships—and treasure—trapped in unnatural ice. |
| 7 | A Dominion patrol — a sahuagin baron and a squad of sahuagin using a giant shark as a battle mount — surface and hail your ship. |
| 8 | A demonglass spire rises out of the water, but this is no simple spike; it seems to be a ruined temple dating back to the Age of Demons. |
| 9 | A ship is anchored at a small, uncharted island. Is this a smuggler’s outpost? Or are the sailors conducting secret negotiations with the local sahuagin? |
| 10 | Skeletal fish can be seen in the water around the ship. This is a manifest zone tied to Mabar; there may be stronger zombie beasts in the water, or a shipwreck infested with shadows. |
| 11 | A sudden shift in currents starts pulling the ship toward an immense maelstrom generated by a manifest zone tied to Lamannia, with water elementals in the vicinity. If the ship is pulled in, it might be destroyed... or drawn into the Endless Ocean of Lamannia. |
| 12 | The hand of a massive statue protrudes from the water, surely made by storm giants. What remains below the surface? |