#location #district [[Sharn]]

The towers of Sharn reach up to the sky. But its tunnels also stretch down into the earth. Far below the forgotten ruins of the Depths, the undercity warrens are known as the Cogs. The great furnaces and foundries of the Cogs form the industrial base of Sharn. The borders of the different Cogs “districts” are not as clearly defined as they are on the surface, but there are a few well-known (and often infamous) areas. Few people with any choice live in the Cogs. Those who work in the foundries usually find homes in Lower Dura or Lower Tavick’s landing, and Khyber’s Gate is the only place where there are actual homes to be found. In spite of this, the Cogs do support a population of a few thousand people. Criminals and fugitives hide from the law. Forbidden cults and other sinister organizations set up temporary residence in the Cogs to practice their dark rituals. But in addition to these individuals, a culture has developed in the sewer levels and the Depths above the Cogs over the course of centuries. These “cellar dwellers” live dangerous lives, scavenging the refuse of the world above and battling one another for territory. But they know the secrets of UnderSharn— and the passages that lead to the forgotten ruins that litter the levels between the Lower City and the Cogs.

### **The Upper Cogs**

Character: Cramped and dirty industrial area

The Upper Cogs lie far below the towers of Sharn. While they stretch across the length of the entire city, access to the Cogs is mostly limited to Lower Tavick’s Landing and Lower Dura where deep access shafts are maintained.
The Upper Cogs are primarily devoted to industry. When Lord Tarkanan destroyed the-old city during the War of the Mark, he opened channels to the lake of fire that lay deep beneath. This lava burns with a heat that is more than the laws of nature should allow, and it is ideal for working difficult metals such as adamantine. Over the centuries, House Cannith has helped Breland develop a massive array of foundries and forges in the Cogs, combining the powers of magic and nature to create a powerful industrial complex. In addition to the trades that rely on the heat and the fire, the Cogs are home to many businesses that the people on the surface don’t want to have to see, smell, or deal with—tanneries, slaughterhouses, and other unpleasant trades.
Much of Sharn’s warforged population can be found in the Cogs districts of Ashblack and Blackbones, laboring in these workhouses and forges. While they are technically free, most of the warforged don’t know what to do with freedom; they were made to follow orders and to work as part of an army. Unscrupulous businessmen have lured warforged into indentured servitude, and many are little better than slaves. Requiring neither food nor sleep, they toil unceasingly, day in and day out. Lord Merrix d’Cannith has been making efforts to improve the life of the warforged and to encourage the constructs to take more initiative. The warforged who work at the Cannith Enclave in Ashblack are treated as equals, and Merrix secretly helped establish the Red Hammer Inn in Blackbones to help the warforged there.
Physically, the Upper Cogs are a honeycomb of passages, just wide enough for the carts and caravans that transport goods to and from the surface. The heat is palpable, and smoke and sulfur scents the air. The Cogs are old, and light is provided by everburning torches as opposed to everbright lanterns; these torches are often spaced far apart, so there can be stretches of shadow between the pools of light. Merchants may hire adventurers to guard particularly important caravans, supply trains have been attacked by Daask in the past.

**Ashblack** (Industry district)

> The air is filled with the smell of smoke and sulfur, and the walls are covered with ash. The constant rumble of the forges and foundries shakes your feet and makes conversation difficult.
> 

Ashblack stretches out from Dura toward the center of the city. In general, the businesses all operate on a large scale, processing loads of ore and other raw materials, they will have little business here. However, there are a few points of interest.

**The Cannith Forgehold**: House Cannith played a major role in the development of Sharn, and as the towers of the city rose up into the sky, the Lords of Cannith sunk their roots into the ground. The enclave in Dragon Towers is used for trade negotiations and diplomatic purposes, but the Forgehold is the heart of House Cannith. This subterranean fortress includes a wide range of forges, alchemical workshops, and mystical facilities. It is an artificer’s dream, and Merrix d’Cannith spends most of his time there.
The Forgehold has many secrets. The first is a shrine to the Traveler, who was revered by the early Cannith tinkers. The greatest secret is hidden even from other members of the house. In an ancient chamber hidden behind illusions and arcane seals, Merrix has preserved one of the creation forges used to produce the warforged. This chamber is largely operated by warforged, although Merrix has confided in a few of his closest associates.
The Forgehold is one of the finest fortresses built by the House of Making. It is designed to withstand both magical and physical assaults, and a thief or spy must overcome a wide range of deadly traps to even approach its secrets. A force of warforged soldiers and Sharn’s five members of the Darkwood Watch, the elite wand adepts of House Cannith, protect the place. The existence of the creation forge is a terrible secret—but not one that is likely to be revealed any time in the near future.

**Keldoran Forge**: Antos Keldoran (N male dwarf expert 5) runs a small smithy in Ashblack, where he produces high-quality metal arms and armor. If a character can win his affection (DC 20 Persuasion check; dwarf characters gain a +5 bonus), Antos sells masterwork metal goods at a 10% discount.

**Blackbones** (Industry district)

> Heat and the smell of smoke fills the air. The long passages are dimly lit and coated with soot, and the inhabitants are dour folk focused on their work.
> 

Blackbones is located under Tavick’s Landing, and stretched west toward the center of Sharn. In most respects it is similar to Ashblack; it is slightly newer, and the corridors are a little wider and better lit. Like Ashblack, there are a considerable number of warforged laborers in this district, and a few businesses have sprung up around these constructs.

**The Pool of Onatar’s Tears**: When the engineers were building Blackbones, they discovered a bizarre phenomenon—a small pool of cool, crystal-clear water surrounded by a larger pool of blazing lava. In addition to surviving the heat, the water actually seemed to be replenished by an unseen source. Curious, a dwarf priest ordered a forge set up near the pool. A skilled smith, he found that if he used the heat of the lava and then tempered his work in the cool water, his work was far better than what he was used to producing. He declared the site to be the work of the sovereign lord Onatar. Today, smiths and metalworkers from across Khorvaire come to Sharn to be blessed at the pool. A temple has been built around the pool, and services to Onatar are held within. Those who seek a special blessing are allowed to dip their hands into the water, which is said to enhance their own talents. The current caretaker of the pool is actually a warforged—one of the few warforged priests on Khorvaire. Smith (LN male personality warforged fighter 2/adept 6) served in the Last War; along the way he developed a deep faith in Onatar, who he believes guided humanity to create the warforged race. Smith believes that the god has a plan for the warforged, and he has done his best to get other members of the warforged community to embrace his vision. Smith is deeply opposed the violent ideology of the Lord of Blades, and firmly believes that the warforged and the creatures of flesh are meant to live together.

**The Red Hammer**: This unusual business is an inn—for warforged. Warforged do not need to eat, drink, or sleep, but they can still hunger for camaraderie. The Red Hammer is a place for warforged to gather, make new friends, and exchange stories. The Hammer is owned by two warforged, Blue (N female personality warforged fighter 5) and Crucible (N female personality warforged artificer 5). The official story is that Blue bought the Hammer with a cache of gold he found during the Last War, but in truth it was paid for by Merrix d’Cannith. Crucible is one of Merrix’s experimental warforged produced in Sharn, and Merrix also wants to provide the warforged with an outlet for social development. Blue and Crucible are on good terms with Smith, and both support his views as opposed to those of the Lord of Blades.
In addition to companionship, the Hammer is a source for repairs and cosmetic improvement for warforged; costs are equivalent to those of a house of healing. Warforged characters receive a +1 bonus on any Intellgence checks made in the Red Hammer.

**Khyber’s Gate** (Undercity)

> This is an actual city beneath the city, with homes and shops carved into the walls of the Cogs. It is still a maze of passages, but the “streets” are a little wider and the ceilings rise higher. The heat is far less intense than in the industrial district, but the air is still filled with the stench of smoke and garbage. Goblins watch from the shadows, and in the distance two ogres stagger out of a bar.
> 

Khyber’s Gate covers the distance between Ashblack and Blackbones. Due to the lack of lava streams, it does not have any of the heavy industry found to the east or west. For the most part, Khyber’s Gate is a tenement district, filled with tiny houses carved into the tunnel walls. A great many of the monstrous immigrants from Droaam have settled in Khyber’s Gate, using strength or supernatural abilities to drive the original residents away. Beyond these monsters, the vast majority of the inhabitants are goblins. The other inhabitants of the Gate are drawn from all races, though they share a common desperation; an elf resident of Khyber’s Gate has little in common with one of the haughty inhabitants of Shae Lias. Many of the non-goblin inhabitants of the region are criminals who have fled from justice.
Some people have established businesses in the depths, while others travel up to the surface and make a living by begging or stealing. While the vast majority of the trades and services offered in Khyber’s Gate are illegal, there are a few people who practice useful mundane trades. Khyber’s Gate is a community of sorts, and brewers, tailors, and cooks are just as valuable as burglars and assassins.
Khyber’s Gate is an extremely disorganized region. There is no central authority—it is simply a question of who has the power to enforce their desires. At the moment, Daask is the most powerful force in the undercity. The Cults of the Dragon Below have a strong following in the undercity, but as is often the case, the cults are not a unified force; there are three different sects, and they fight one another as often as anyone else. The rakshasa Zathara and zakya Nethatar are powerful and deadly inhabitants of the region, but few people even know of their existence.
In Khyber’s Gate, an adventurer should always be cautious—there’s no telling when what appears to be a lowly goblin might turn out to be a vampire, a wererat, a rakshasa, or an even more dangerous fiend.

**Shamukaar**: This is the largest and most successful tavern in the region, and it is the safest place to deal with members of Daask. Shamukaar is simultaneously a slaughterhouse, a butcher shop, a restaurant, and a tavern. It caters to Droaam immigrants, a category that includes many different species; ogres, gnolls, harpies, minotaurs, and even medusas can be found at the bar. The goblin chefs can prepare an astonishing assortment of meals, all of which share one thing in common: they are disgusting to humans. Any non-goblin who eats a meal at Shamukaar must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or suffer 1 point of Constitution damage and become nauseated for 1 hour. A non-goblin who eats at Shamukaar once per day for a week without failing a saving throw gains a +2 bonus on all saving throws to resist the effects of ingested poisons.
Despite the monstrous nature of its patrons, Shamukaar is one of the safest places in Khyber’s Gate. Even the monsters of Daask recognize the need for a neutral ground and a safe haven, and Shamukaar serves that purpose. Unless provoked beyond measure, a resident of Khyber’s Gate will not start a fight in Shamukaar. And if anyone does start a fight, all other patrons unite together to subdue the aggressor.

**The Wounded Dragon**: This shop is located in a small side tunnel behind Shamukaar. It has no windows, and the door is locked with seal of the magi. The only indication of its purpose is a small sign above the door, showing a stylized dragon with an injured leg; a few drops of blood fall from its raised foreleg. This is the abode of Cask (NE male changeling artificer 5), a changeling artificer allied with Daask. Cask’s specialty is alchemy, and he provides Daask with wrath, noxious smokesticks, and other alchemical weapons. More importantly, he plays a key role in the dragon’s blood trade, selling from his shop. Dragon’s blood is smuggled into Sharn in an inert, unrecognizable solid form. Cask prepares a special salve; when this is applied to the dragon's blood, it restores the drug to its proper consistency. Cask cannot create dragon’s blood on his own, and he does not know the ingredients of the drug.

**The Temple of the Six**: Before the rise of the Silver Flame, it was not uncommon to find people who openly worshipped the Dark Six, either hungry for power or making sacrifices to placate the dark gods. Temples to the Six were usually built in hidden places, and when Sharn was created an enormous temple to the Dark Six was constructed beneath the city. In 484 YK, Flamekeeper Jalus Baine led a force of the faithful and exterminated the followers of the Six, and the temple was quickly ransacked. But it was not completely destroyed. Currently, it serves as the headquarters of Daask and the home of the ogre mage Cavallah (LE female ogre mage rogue 3). Cavallah respects the Mockery and the Shadowand has restored their altars, but for the most part the temple was simply a convenient base of operations. She has established a range of defenses in the temple, and brought a variety of unpleasant beasts from Droaam: gricks, displacer beasts, basilisks, and an assortment of other deadly creatures. The wealth gathered by Droaam lies in the vaults of this temple—but seizing it would be a dangerous task. Many of the Dark Six have other worshippers in Khyber’s Gate, how have established hidden temples; these folk generally practice their faith in private and have little contact with Cavallah.

**The Citadel of the Closed Circle**: In the dawn of Sharn, there were three wizard’s circles: The Esoteric Order of Aureon, the Guild of Starlight and Shadows, and the Closed Circle. The wizards of the Closed Circle were interested in the lore of the daelkyr, and soon developed strong ties to the Cults of the Dragon Below. Eventually their work began to frighten the other two circles; it came to a war of wizards, and the Closed Circle was sealed in its fortress in the undercity. Now, centuries later, the Dragon Below has returned to this arcane fortress. A mind flayer named Chyrassk (NE male mind flayer cleric 3) has emerged from Khyber and broken the seals of this ancient dungeon. Chyrassk brought a small force from Khyber—3 dolgaunts, 20 dolgrims, and 1 umber hulk—but he has begun to build up a human following, especially among the refugees of Cyre. He has found many disturbing and powerful relics in this fortress.

**The Workshop of Tyrial Dashar**: A mighty conjurer created this underground workshop in order to carry out his experiments without placing the city at risk. He was eventually killed by a rakshasa that escaped its bonds, and ever since then his workshop has been a fortress of the Lords of Dust. Currently, the rakshasas Zathara and Nethatar reside in this dungeon keep.