#location #district [[Sharn]]

The towers of Sharn reach up to the sky. But its tunnels also stretch down into the earth. Far below the forgotten ruins of the Depths, the undercity warrens are known as the Cogs. The great furnaces and foundries of the Cogs form the industrial base of Sharn. The borders of the different Cogs “districts” are not as clearly defined as they are on the surface, but there are a few well-known (and often infamous) areas. Few people with any choice live in the Cogs. Those who work in the foundries usually find homes in Lower Dura or Lower Tavick’s landing, and Khyber’s Gate is the only place where there are actual homes to be found. In spite of this, the Cogs do support a population of a few thousand people. Criminals and fugitives hide from the law. Forbidden cults and other sinister organizations set up temporary residence in the Cogs to practice their dark rituals. But in addition to these individuals, a culture has developed in the sewer levels and the Depths above the Cogs over the course of centuries. These “cellar dwellers” live dangerous lives, scavenging the refuse of the world above and battling one another for territory. But they know the secrets of UnderSharn— and the passages that lead to the forgotten ruins that litter the levels between the Lower City and the Cogs.

### **The Sewers**

The upper wards of Sharn use an ingeniously devised network of chutes to funnel garbage down into the sewers. Garbage and filth is channeled into cavernous midden chambers, where it is left to rot or be devoured by the vermin and oozes that inhabit the sewers. Smaller tunnels channel wastewater to purification centers, where magewrights employ stones of purity to cleanse the water. A special unit of the Sharn Watch protects the purification chambers. Beyond these small, vital areas, the sewers are completely lawless. The tunnels and midden chambers are unlit, and vermin and oozes are common throughout the region.
While the sewers were never intended to support a population, over the centuries a subculture has evolved in this region that lies directly below the Lower-City. There are treasures to be found in the midden heaps—or if not treasure, at least objects that can be resold for a few coppers. A few tribes of people—mostly goblins, along with a few shifters, dwarves, and feral halflings and gnomes—live in the sewers, rummaging through the midden heaps and selling their goods in impromptu “rat’s markets” in the Lower-City. These sewer clans are constantly battling over territory, as control of midden chambers is critical to the survival of a clan. The sewer clans can pose a threat to adventurers who travel to the Depths, but they can also be valuable allies; there are no better guides to the sewers and the Depths than one of the cellar dwellers.

The **Quiet Folk** are a goblin clan whose territory is located under Tavick’s Landing. They are generally a peaceful clan who rely on stealth and knowledge of the sewers as opposed to force, and they can be useful allies for a party of adventurers. Most Quiet Folk are Ist- or 2nd-level experts specializing in Hide, Stealth, Search, and Spot.

The **Red Jackals** are one of the most violent clans. Most of the jackals are shifters, but there are a number of half-orcs in the clan. While they are based under Menthis Plateau, the Red Jackals spend as much time raiding the camps of other sewer clans as they do searching their own midden heaps, and as a result they can be found anywhere in the sewers. While they are a very chaotic clan, Hassht (CE female shifter barbarian 6) is the dominant Jackal warrior. Most Red Jackals are 2nd-level warriors or 1st-level barbarians.

The **Grave Diggers** are a band of dwarves. They are one of the smaller clans, but they control the rich territory under Central Plateau, and they fight fiercely to defend their chambers. Grave Diggers are dour folk who talk as little as possible. The leader of the Grave Diggers is named Kandon (N male dwarf expert 2/barbarian 3); he has terrible acid burns due to a fight with an ochre jelly, but he is a fierce warrior and a cunning tactician. Most of the Grave Diggers are expert 1/warrior 1, but a handful are 1st-level barbarians.

The **Rats** are a small clan of feral halflings and gnomes. Like the Red Jackals, the Rats spend more time raiding other clans than they do scavenging. While small, the Rats are surprisingly ferocious and prefer ambushes and theft to direct confrontations. Most Rats are 1st-level rangers; their leader Sasca (CE female halfling ranger 4) has formed a close bond with a dire rat she calls Molarc. Most of the remaining clans are goblins, though there are a few mixed tribes. Bear in mind that the sewers are largely unlit; this gives races with darkvision a considerable advantage, and races without any
sort of enhanced vision can have a very difficult time in the murky underworld.

### **The Depths**

The sewers are the bowels of Sharn. But there are older ruins that predate the great city. UnderSharn represents the remains of the great cities of old buried in the forgotten Depths between the LowerCity and the Sewers and the Cogs far below.
When Galifar I ordered Sharn to be rebuilt, all passages to the Depths were bound with iron and magic, and traffic between the surface and the ruins was forbidden. Still, there are many things that could draw adventurers down to the Depths. The simplest is greed: A great deal of treasure must still be hidden in the ruins of UnderSharn. In addition, a number of the dragonmarked houses had enclaves that were abandoned during the War of the Mark and lost when the city was destroyed; a dragonmarked lord could hire a party to recover relics from the past.
The Depths, or UnderSharn, is in essence a series of dungeons. The surviving sections of the city are scattered throughout the underworld, and each one may be sealed in a different manner and hold different threats.

**The Servants of Calderus**: Far beneath the towers of Sharn, in the lost regions of the Depths, lies the ancient psionic vampire Calderus. From within her hidden crypt, Calderus wields significant power in the City of Towers. Though she rarely leaves her sanctuary, she rules the Servants, a network of enslaved vampires and dominated pawns of various races. This network of spies and agents operates as her eyes, ears, and hands in the city, advancing her plots and gathering intelligence that adds to the vampire lord’s significant storehouse of information.