#location #district [[Sharn]]

Northedge, one of the quietest regions within Sharn, is a residential quarter. Most of its inhabitants are crafters and commoners, people who make an honest living within the great city. As a result, it is an uncommon destination for adventurers. However, a variety of tradesfolk and artisans work out of their Northedge homes, and it is possible that a party will be recommended to one of the Northedge specialists.

In addition, if an adventurer wants to take up residence within Sharn, the prices in Northedge are quite reasonable. Finally, while Northedge is known as a peaceful region, this calm facade can make an excellent cover for sinister activities. In other words, Northedge makes a perfect hiding place for a master villain, a nefarious cult, or a cunning spy.

### **Middle Northedge**
Character: Peaceful residential area, home to skilled crafters and successful merchants.

Middle Northedge is a peaceful residential ward, featuring some of the finest average housing in the city. The inhabitants are successful, hardworking folk, and the streets are clean and quiet. Much of the dwarf population of the city lives in this ward.

**Holdfast** (Dwarf neighborhood)

> Dwarves fill streets of Holdfast, though few have the accent or wear the clothing of the Mror Holds. The ringing of anvils and song of steel on steel can be heard rising from the smithies in the center to the district, and masons pass by with cartloads of stone. The people seem to be very industrious, and reasonably well off.

When King Galifar I’s son, Karrn, invaded the Mror Holds, the dwarf nation was in a state of anarchy and constant clan warfare. Despite the barbaric state of their realm, the dwarves were natural miners and stonemasons with an innate talent for building fortifications. When King Galifar decided to rebuild the city of Sharn, he brought in a force of dwarf engineers and laborers from the Mror Holds. Dwarf hands played an important role in the rebirth of Sharn, and as the city grew it developed a sizeable dwarf population. Over the centuries, many dwarves spread across the city, abandoning their ancient roots. But other families remained together, forming a strong dwarf community. In time, they settled in the district they named Holdfast.
Dwarves comprise almost 90% of the population of Holdfast; the rest of the population is fairly evenly divided between gnomes, humans, and halflings. Most recent immigrants from the Mror Holds live in Highhold in Upper Dura; the dwarves of Holdfast are descended from the dwarves that came to rebuild Sharn in the earliest days of King Galifar’s rule, and they have no strong attachment to the Mror Holds or its traditions. They are, however, extremely loyal to one another. A dwarf born in Holdfast has a thousand friends, and can always find shelter or a meal. Of course, this is a double-edged sword, and old friends or family may ask for help with gambling debts, the Boromar Clan, or any number of other possible reasons.
The people of Holdfast are comfortably middle class. Some serve as overseers in the vast foundries down in the Cogs, while others are architects or stonemasons. Holdfast also contains smithies of all sorts. Most of the arms and armor of the Sharn City Watch are produced in Holdfast, and anyone looking for masterwork armor can find it in this district. The smiths also look after their own, and if a dwarf of Brelish descent can make a successful DC 10 Charisma check, the cost of any weapons or armor he purchases in Holdfast is reduced by 10%.

**High Hope** (Temple district)

> Shrines and temples line the suspended streets of High Hope. Compared to the gaudy trappings of Sovereign Towers, High Hope appears plain and functional. However, the temples are large and well maintained, and throngs of devotees fill the streets.
> 

The most impressive temples in Sharn are found in the Sovereign Towers district of Middle Central. But the glory of these monuments is tarnished by the corruption within the churches themselves. High Hope lacks the gilt trappings of Sovereign Towers, but what it lacks in pomp it makes up for with faith and sincerity. In addition to the three primary temples and the three large shrines, there are a wide range of smaller monuments dedicated to other deities and to religious heroes and martyrs. The people who live in the district or who come to High Hope to pray are typically quiet and serious in their devotions.
The councilor of Middle Northedge lives in High Hope. Doran Cantar (NG male human expert 4/adept 1, Community domain) comes from a long line of advocates and mediators. In addition to inheriting the wealth and talents of his family, Doran has a strong faith in the Sovereign Lady Boldrei; while he does not serve as a priest, he draws strength and minor mystical abilities from his faith. Doran often consults with Daca (see next page).

**Coldflame Keep**: While it looks more like a fortress than a place of worship, Coldflame Keep is the local church devoted to the Silver Flame. Established during the Purge as a garrison of the church templars, Coldflame Keep has slowly dwindled as the hierophants have drawn resources away to the temples of Sovereign Towers and Pinnacle. Today, the keep is a shadow of its former self. Flamebearer Mazin Tana (LG male human cleric 6) does his best to maintain the temple and serve the community. His acolytes consist of two teenagers and one crippled scribe. The garrison was built to house a hundred soldiers, but currently there are only eight templars in residence, most of whom are 2ndlevel warriors. While these soldiers are supposed to protect the district from supernatural threats, Mazin believes that they have been chosen by the Archierophant to keep an eye on the aging priest—to make certain that Mazin does not try to interfere with the powers that control the Church in Sharn. While he is disillusioned with his superiors, Mazin still believes in the ideals of the Church and does his best to help those in need. If the party needs the aid of a true priest of the Silver Flame, Mazin is one of the few people who can help them.

**Daca’s Watch**: High Hope contains an unusual shrine to Boldrei, a monument that has come to be known as Daca’s Watch. A thick, 12-foot pillar of densewood, this structure was supposed to hold a statue of some priest or martyr, but funding for the project evaporated, and the pillar stood empty for many years. One day, a gnome named Daca climbed up to the top and sat down. From this high perch, she watched and studied the people, occasionally shouting advice to people who seemed troubled or distressed.
That was 120 years ago. Daca still sits on her post, watching over her neighbors. While she has no oracular powers, she is very familiar with the people of High Hope and has a great deal of common sense. The inhabitants of the district often come to her for advice or when a mediator is required, and she served as an emotional pillar of the community over the course of the Last War.
While she has no religious training and does not profess to be a priestess of Boldrei, most of the locals believe that she has been touched by the goddess and consider her to be a holy woman. They are not alone in this; a handful of priests from other districts regularly visit High Hope to discuss events in Sharn with Daca.

**Oakbridge** (Average residential)

> Towers and houses of polished densewood fill this district. While simple in design, the buildings are comfortable and well designed, and the district has been carefully maintained. The streets are quiet and the people are friendly, and after a few minutes, it feels like home.
> 

While the majority of the townhouses and apartments in Oakbridge fall into the “average” category, they are of the highest quality within that category. The district is not ostentatious and an Oakbridge address conveys no status on its owner, but the buildings are large, well constructed, and very safe, and the inhabitants are friendly and always keep an eye out for one another. If someone purchases a home in Oakbridge, within a week he has dozens of new friends.

**Bright Wind**: The people of Oakbridge are generally a social and outgoing group, but the friendliest inhabitants of the district are the members of Milana family, who live in a small, comfortable townhouse they have named Bright Wind. Jolan Milana (NG male human commoner 3) is a baker who sells his wares in High Hope, while his wife Sarina (NG female human commoner 3) is a seamstress who works out of their home. They have three young children: Jalina (female, 12), Mesin (male, 8), and Jeral (male, 5). Anyone who settles in Oakbridge soon receives a personal welcome from the Milanas. In time, the family may be used as a way to pull a party into an adventure. Perhaps one of the children goes missing or overhears a conversation she shouldn't have. Maybe Jolan is infected with a Riedran mind seed. Or perhaps this friendly family is hiding a dark secret—a tie to a Radiant Cult or one of the Cults of the Dragon Below.