#location [[Rhaan (Thelanis)]] [[Zilargo]]

Pylas Pyrial is the Gate of Joy, celebrated for its bards and revels. Tied to Zilargo, it has a significant gnome population.

Similar to many of the races of Eberron, the origins of the gnomes is shrouded in mythology. Ten thousand years ago, the early Dhakaani record facing off against vicious "jungle rats", masters of deceptive defenses. What happened in the intervening years is unclear - one story tells of a gnomish king who made a pact with a fey lord, the gnomes joining the Summer Council of Pylas Pyrial. If such a king existed, his or her name has been lost to history. Another story says there was no pact and no king - instead, a collective of gnomish heroes tricked their way onto the court, impressing the fey lords with their wit and skill.

Whatever the story, a collective of gnomes with extended lifespans have lived amongst the eladrin and other fey of Pylas Pyrial for a great length of time and compose a portion of the ruling Summer Court. These fey gnomes have always had cordial ties with the ordinary gnomes of Zilargo, but this relationship has blossomed into an alliance since the Day of Mourning, when the feyspire shifted to the Material temporarily (and has shifted back and forth periodically since). While the relationship is still fresh, the Triumvirate have sent dozens of diplomatic staff to the feyspire to learn arcane and other secrets.

Thelanis gnomes on Eberron mostly reside in Pylas Pyrial, a glittering tower of alabaster and gold. Over the centuries, the Zil have maintained a relationship with Pylas Pyrial when it has appeared. Pylas Pyrial is ruled by the Summer Council, which includes gnomes and eladrin. While the Triumvirate has no formal power within the Gate of Joy, the Trust has infiltrated the feyspire and have agents amongst its ruling council.