#location [[Rhaan (Thelanis)]]

The Moonlit Vale is essentially a country, with the feyspires spread across it as cities; it’s possible to spend days traveling from spire to spire. While it’s largely arboreal, there are beautiful valleys, glittering lakes, and a vast mountain. It’s always night here, and the moon Rhaan radiates bright light, always seeming to hang just above the viewer. While the moon doesn’t move or change, the seasons do; in winter, the court is covered in snow, while in spring, it’s in brilliant flower. This has nothing to do with the passage of time, and everything to do with the intrigues of the Palace of the Moon; the current season indicates which seasonal court is currently dominant. This is a crucial aspect of the Moonlit Vale: things change. The baronies are fixed in their stories, but the intrigues of the four seasons are the story Thelanis tells itself.

The Moonlit Vale embodies the general idea of the fey— otherworldy beauty and magic. There are many natural displays of illusion— streams of glowing mist, ethereal music, distant song. Motes of light drift slowly through the trees. The beasts of the region are sleek and graceful, and have unusual colors and patterns; while many use standard stat blocks, sentient beasts might use the statistics for Valenar beasts. The land is fertile, game is easy to hunt, and adventurers have advantage on foraging checks . . . though hunting without permission may incur the wrath of the local fey.

The feyspires are the cities of the Moonlit Vale. Each is home to a single archfey whose personal story is reflected by the spire, along with a few greater fey and a host of eladrin and other mortals. The grandest city in the Moonlit Vale is the Palace of the Moon.