#location #district [[Sharn]]

Dura, one of the largest and oldest quarter of Sharn, rises from the ruins Shaarat and the Old Sharn that fell at the end of the War of the Mark. But as Sharn has grown over the centuries since that terrible conflict, Dura has been left behind. Today, many consider it a blight on the city, riddled as it is with poverty and crime. Dura is home to the majority of the lower classes of Sharn, and Lower Dura is generally considered to be little better than the Cogs.

Nonetheless, Dura is the gateway to the Dagger River. Cargo passes from Cliffside up through Dura, and most of the vast warehouse districts are located in the lower ward. The Bazaar of Dura is a source for all manner of unusual goods, including a wide range of illegal merchandise. Dura may be dangerous and dirty, but it is certainly a gateway to adventure.

The Race of Eight Winds has a major impact on the culture of this quarter. Residents born and raised in Dura are likely to be quite passionate about the race, and outsiders who settle in one of the districts of Dura would be wise to smile and nod when the subject comes up. As the time of the race draws near, Callestan and Hareth’s Folly become a hotbed of arguments and brawls.

### **Upper Dura**
Character: Crowded and bustling. This is not a wealthy ward, but the people are surviving, and some are clearly doing quite well for themselves. While there are a few upscale businesses, the merchants are clearly used to dealing with adventurers and others of questionable character.

Physically and economically, Upper Dura has little in common with the slums and tenements that lie below it. The upper towers were erected over the past few centuries, and the stonework reflects the prosperity of Breland and the city. If the ward is not as fancy or prestigious as Central Plateau or Northedge, at least the streets are clean and in good repair. However, while many of the people of Upper Dura are successful merchants or crafters, there is a seedy edge to the ward. Beggars can be found throughout the ward, flaunting their afflictions and misfortunes in hopes of earning pity and coppers. Dreamlily dens and other forms of high-class crime can be found in the shadows. The people are comfortable with strangers and others of questionable character—so adventurers are made welcome.

**Clifftop** (Adventurer’s quarter)

> The towers of this district are drab gray granite, but the crowds that fill the streets are quite colorful. People of all races and cultures can be seen. An Aundairian wizard compares notes with a kalashtar monk in the shade of a tavern, while across the street a Lhazaar privateer and a Valenar elf compare blades. Clifftop is a fairly dingy district— but it attracts an interesting crowd.

This district attracts those willing to devote sword, spells, or skills to risky but profitable endeavors. Anyone looking for a discreet bodyguard, a mercenary soldier, or a guide to the wilds of Xen drik can find what they need in Clifftop. Adventurers looking for a patron may find one here.
Clifftop is a curious blend of wealth and poverty. Most of the businesses in the district are serviceable, but not exceptional, providing for the needs of the adventurer who rarely has more than a few pieces of gold in his purse. It also provides services for the lucky explorer or privateer who has returned home with gold to spare, with commercial spellcasters, shops selling used wands and old mageworked weapons, and other exotic goods readily available. While similar in many ways to the Deathsgate district, Clifftop has a better and generally well-deserved reputation.
The district provides a number of services adventurers may find useful. A wide variety of hirelings can be found here, and all of them are used to putting up with the odd demands of adventurers. Likewise, as adventurers have a way of getting into trouble with the law, there are a considerable number of barristers and advocates in the district. The pawnshops of Clifftop offer 45% of value for almost any sorts of goods, except those that are obviously stolen; fences that deal in stolen goods must be found in the lower levels of Dura.

**The Augury**: This shop, located in the section of Clifftop known as the mystic market, features a circle of magewrights who possess the ability to cast divinatory spells, including augury, clairaudience/clairvoyance, detect magic, detect scrying, divination, identify, locate creature, locate object, and scrying.
The master magewright of The Augury is a 334- year-old elf named Kestia (N female elf magewright 18). A child of House Phiarlan, Kestia was expelled from the house after she developed an aberrant dragonmark. However, her mystical powers exceed even the wizards of the Esoteric Order of Aureon. She can contact other plane and imbue with spell ability, allowing her to sell the power to cast a particular spell (albeit once). Her other talents include permanency, sending, and false vision; she occasionally sells permanent alarms, and she herself has permanent arcane sight and tongues.
As it sells sending, locate, and alarm spells, The Augury cuts into the profits of a number of the dragonmarked houses, notably Tharashk, Sivis, and Kundarak. Some believe that Kestia uses blackmail to protect herself from the retribution of the houses, while others say that she appeases the houses with a share of her profits. She has refused to join the Esoteric Order of Aureon or the Guild of Starlight and Shadows, preferring to remain independent.

**Clifftop Adventurers’ Guild**: This district has long served as a crossroads for adventurers and soldiers of fortune. One hundred and fifty years ago, a dwarf named Shekkal Korranor established a guild for explorers and wanderers—a place where those with adventurous spirits could find good company and support. Shekkal died in the Last War, but the Clifftop Adventurers’ Guild remains. Members tend to be 2nd- to 5th-level characters with good alignments, most of whom have spent some time in Xen‘drik.
There is a strong rivalry between the members of the Clifftop Adventurers’ Guild and Deathsgate Explorer’s Club, and characters that join Clifftop may have to deal with Deathsgate hooligans—either in Sharn or while adventuring in the wilds.

**The Dragon’s Hoard**: The Dragon’s Hoard sells a wide assortment of wondrous items. Members of the Clifftop Adventurers’ Guild receive a 5% discount off the normal market price for items purchased here.

**The Drunken Dragon**: A bizarre assortment of odds and ends cover the walls of the Drunken
Dragon tavern, including the trophies of a hundred expeditions to Xen’drik, the Demon Wastes, and other strange lands. Among the oldest pubs in Upper Dura, the Drunken Dragon is a long-time favorite of explorers, adventurers, and privateers. Slow service and poor food aside, the Drunken Dragon has one of the widest selections of exotic alcoholic beverages in Sharn. From Mror ale and Lhazaar mead to the orcish hrak of the Shadow Marches and fermented honey-milk brewed by the shifters of the Eldeen Reaches, if it’s strong and strange it can be found at the Drunken Dragon.
The Dragon has become one of the main places to hire adventurers; if a party has no specific agenda and simply hopes to find work, it could do worse than to have a few drinks at the Drunken Dragon. The Dragon is a tavern as opposed to an inn, but it does have two private rooms that parties can use when discussing secret business or important deals.
The Drunken Dragon is owned by Hascal d’Ghallanda (NG male halfling rogue 3/expert 6), a cheerful middle-aged halfling. Hascal began his life as an explorer, but gave up the trade after losing his lower left leg and his right eye in a particularly disastrous trip to Xen’drik, and returned to pick up the family business. He has an assortment of beautifully carved artificial limbs and colorful eye patches that correspond to his flamboyant outfits. Hascal is an extremely knowledgeable and talented fellow who, given an opportunity, can spend hours talking about his adventures.
Hascal possesses the Mark of Hospitality and has the power to cast *refuge*; while he generally saves this for personal protection, for enough gold he could be convinced to cast it on behalf of a group of favored customers. Though he no longer actively adventures, Hascal remains a member of the Clifftop Adventurers’ Guild.

**The Esoteric Order of Aureon**: The larger of Sharn’s wizard circles, the Esoteric Order of Aureon  has its headquarters in Clifftop. The Order’s tower is built of white marble, and: glamers have been woven into the stone that cause the tower to shimmer and glow so that it seems as if it has been crafted of solid light.
Not all members of the Order sell their services, but if a party seeks an arcane spellcaster in Clifftop, this is the place to visit. Generally, spells of up to 3rd level can be obtained at standard prices, and 4th-level spells may be available. However, the wizards of the Order may not have the spell a party seeks prepared; in such cases, a client must wait 24
hours to complete their purchase.

**House Sivis**: In addition to the local message station, House Sivis maintains an enclave in Clifftop devoted to the Speaker’s Guild. This enclave specializes in two things: the translation of texts and other materials recovered from Xen’drik, and legal services for adventurers in trouble. Josilian Kan d’Tarlian (N male gnome bard 3/expert 3) works out of this office, and is widely considered to be one of the best barristers in Sharn—though at a base price of 25 gp/day (and possibly more, depending on the nature of the case), he is certainly one of the most expensive.

**House Tharashk**: The House of Finding has a great interest in Xen’drik and the mineral wealth that can be found there, as well as an interest in the other dark lands of Eberron— Q barra, the Demon Wastes, Khyber, and the Mournland. The Tharashk enclave in Clifftop is primarily concerned with exploration and prospecting. The house sells the services of guides, and many of its members have firsthand experience in Xen’drik and Khyber.
In addition to the powers of their dragonmarks, these guides can provide invaluable information about the threats lurking in these regions. When the house plans expeditions to Xen’drik, these are usually arranged at the Clifftop enclave. Due to the rivalry with Tharashk and Deneith, the house often recruits adventurers to protect an expedition instead of hiring Deneith mercenaries.

**Kavv’s**: This little restaurant is one of the wellkept secrets of Sharn. The Kavv family emigrated from the city of Stormreach in Xen’drik, and the food is an intriguing blend of Khorvairian styles, using Xen’drik spices and vegetables most people have never encountered. Kavvy’s is a small, intimate establishment, and despite the extremely high quality of the food, a typical meal averages 30 cp. Sazaand Taji Kavv (NG male and female humans, both commoner 4) still have many friends and relatives in Stormreach, and if the party befriends the Kavvs these contacts could prove to be useful during trips to Xen’drik.

**Kurala’s House of Healing**: Explorers tend to need healing more than merchants and crafters, and Kurala d’Jorasco (NG female halfling adept 9) does a brisk business in Clifftop. In addition to possessing the Mark of Healing (lesser restoration), she is an adept of Boldrei and can perform magical healing for her clients, including remove curse and remove disease. While she runs her own business, Kurala is a respected member of House Jorasco and is often called in to help the healers in Dragon Towers. Kurala’s House includes three lesser healers—two 3rd-level adepts and a 4th-level expert with the Mark of Healing (cure light wounds)—and Kurala’s husband Janasar (N male halfling expert 4), who specializes in the care and treatment of animals.

**The Mystic Market**: The white tower of the Esoteric Order of Aureon is surrounded by a host of lesser magic businesses. Most true wizards work with the Esoteric Order or the Guild of Starlight and Shadow, and the Mystic Market consists mainly of magewrights and adepts. Businesses in the market include: The Mithral Blade, a smithy that produces steel and mithral weapons and armor with up to a +2 enhancement bonus; Wise Wood, a shop that buys and sells wands and staves; The Moonlit Loom, which sells magic clothing; The Dragon’s Hoard, which sells a wide assortment of minor wondrous items and does a brisk business in feather fall talismans; and two different potion merchants, Boldrei’s Tears and Good Spirits. These shops all operate within the 40,000 gp limit of the ward, though the Dragon’s Hoard has a 20,000 gp limit on its goods.

**Daggerwatch** (Garrison)

> This may be the cleanest and quietest district in Dura. The walls of the towers are heavily reinforced, as if to withstand siege weaponry. The streets are filled with guards of the Watch, both patrols and off-duty guards; it looks like a bad place to start a fight.

Dura is easily the most dangerous quarter of the city, and during the Last War riots and other forms of unrest were a constant concern. Plus, the Race of the Eight Winds usually results in various forms of crime and vandalism. As a result, Daggerwatch has the largest concentration of the City Watch in Sharn. Many low-ranking city officials, including judges and tax collectors, make their homes in Daggerwatch and rely on the presence of the Watch to protect them from vengeful citizens.

**Daggerwatch Garrison**: The eponymous garrison in the district is the home to over 600 members of the Sharn Watch. In addition to the regular officers of the Watch, Daggerwatch Garrison houses the Goldwings and includes facilities for maintaining the unit’s 25 hippogriffs.

**The Gold & White**: This large tavern is usually filled with off-duty guards of the Watch and royal soldiers. Anyone wearing the insignia of a non-Brelish military unit, or who can be identified as having served with another nation during the Last War, receives an Unfriendly attitude by the patrons of The Gold & White. Conversely, any character who served Breland during the war gets a Friendly attitude.

**Talain Garrison**: This fortress houses both the Sharn Watch and the elite Redcloak Battalion. While slightly smaller than the Daggerwatch Garrison, it is far more heavily fortified and could withstand an extended siege.

**Highhold** (Dwarf neighborhood)

> The architecture is sturdy, functional stone, though the scale is slightly too small for most humans. While there is luxury to be found here, the citizens of Holdfast put work before play.

When House Kundarak first established itself in Sharn, the dwarf immigrants who came with the house sought to make their mark on the city. While dwarf engineers had played a significant role in the construction of Sharn, the city was designed for humans. Holdfast is the first district to be built by dwarves for dwarves, and their touch is evident throughout the district. While the dwarves appreciate luxury and comfort, they are also concerned with defense and durability, and the buildings of Holdfast are among of the strongest and most defensible in the city.
Dwarves make up the majority of the population in Holdfast—both recent immigrants from the Mror Holds and those whose families have lived in Sharn for generations. The inns and taverns serve strong Mror ale and stonebreaker mead, and most of the buildings and furnishings are built to dwarven proportions. Beyond the dwarves, there are a considerable number of gnomes in the district, reflecting the strong economic ties between House Sivis and House Kundarak.
Businesses in Holdfast include a branch of the Kundarak Bank and a Sivis message station. There are also restaurants serving Mror food (an acquired taste for most humans) and a variety of other crafters, including master masons, architects, and armorers. Many of the inhabitants work for one of the branches of the Kundarak Bank, while others work in the Cog foundries but have positions allowing them to afford to live above the surface.

**Clebdecher’s Loom**: While most people think of dwarves as grim and stoic individuals, the merchant princes of the Mror Holds take great pride in their appearance and clothing. Run by Hellien Clamas Clebdecher (LN female gnome commoner 6/magewright 2), Clebdecher’s Loom specializes in fine clothing in Mrorian and Zil styles. Clebdecher is one of the finest workers of glamerweave in the city, and many human lords and ladies come to Holdfast to avail themselves of her talents. As a result, there is usually a considerable wait for Hellian’s services; anyone preparing for an important event needs to plan ahead to purchase a Clebdecher gown or suit.

**Moraggan’s**: The Mror spirits served at Moraggan’s might be the strongest drink in Sharn. However, Moraggan’s is a far cry from the rough and tumble saloon one might expect from a place with such a reputation. This posh, luxurious establishment has considerable security and a number of private, soundproofed rooms. Moraggan’s caters to Kundarak agents and other Mror merchants—traders and crafters who believe that strong drink and business negotiation go hand in hand.

**Highwater** (Average residential)

> Quiet streets wind around townhouse towers in a relatively safe environment.

Highwater is the finest residential district in Dura, thought the accommodations are considerably smaller and plainer than those of Middle Northedge, let alone any of the other upper wards. But the prices are reasonable, the stonework is solid, the views are exceptional, and the streets are fairly safe—for Dura.

**Pegasus Spire**: While House Vadalis conducts most of its business in Dragon Towers, the head of the household has always resided in the Pegasus Spire in Highwater. The Sharn Vadalis have always enjoyed participating in the Race of Eight Winds and the Highwater Wind Guard has always included members of the family. In addition to serving as the manor for the Vadalis family, Pegasus Spire provides the stable and training facilities for the pegasi used in the race.

**Hope’s Peak** (Temple district)

> Many of the towers in this district are built from blocks of white stone flecked with spots of gold, and when the sunlight falls on Hope’s Peak it seems to glow and burn.

Hope’s Peak is the most recent temple district constructed in Sharn, and many of the shrines were relocated from the lower levels of Dura. The most important building is the Citadel of the Sun, but the main temples of the Sovereign Host and the Silver Flame draw worshippers from the depths of Dura. While most of the priests of the region are devout enough, this is Dura, and pragmatism abounds. If a party of adventurers knows who to talk to and how to approach them, divine miracles can be bought outright. With luck and hard work, divine spellcasting services of up to 4th level can be purchased.

**The Citadel of the Sun**: The tallest tower in Hope’s Peak is the Citadel of the Sun, a temple dedicated to Dol Arrah, the Sovereign lady of Sun and Sword. The stone of the tower has been enchanted to shine like gold, but it is still stone—something that has proven to be a grave disappointment to many a beggar who has sought to scrape a shaving from the wall. Aerela Tal (LG female half-elf adept 12), a devoted priest who served with distinction in the war before retiring, maintains the temple. Aerela does not sell divine spells, but she may provide assistance in exchange for services; she is distressed by the darkness in Sharn, and would like to see light shed on the shadows of the city.
This large and beautiful temple's tower rises far above the other districts of Upper Dura. At the top lies a garden, where three golden griffons—half-celestial creatures (7, 8, and 9 HD respectively) said to have been touched by the lady of the sun—reside. The griffons rarely stray from the tower, but an oracle has said that they will rise and fight at the time of Sharn’s greatest peril. Killing one of these creatures would be a heinous crime that would outrage the devotees of the goddess.

**Olladra’s Arms**: This restaurant, one of the brightest spots in Dura, is considered to be one of the finest restaurants in the city. In addition to a few private rooms, it features a vast central hall suitable for enormous parties or feasts. The menu consists of traditional Brelish cuisine, but choices are limited. The master chef, Halean Doss (N male human commoner 9), chooses a single menu each night. However, quantities are generous and the quality of the food is outstanding.

**Overlook** (Apartment townhomes)

> The spires of over a dozen identical towers rise to the sky. While the towers are drab gray granite, bits of color are scattered about— an occasional window of stained glass, a small hanging garden, a tapestry of Riedran design.

Built with the fortune of the ir’Tain family, Overlook is one of the largest residential districts in Sharn. The remarkably bland stonework creates a vast, gray vista that can be disconcerting. The ir’Tains were interested in getting the most for their gold, however, and aesthetics were not a concern. While the townhouse apartments in Overlook are not as pleasant as those in Lower Northedge, they are inexpensive and far safer than the wards that lie below. Plus, the area offers breathtaking views of the Dagger River and the surrounding countryside.
Over the centuries, Overlook has developed a significant Adaran and kalashtar community, and the district draws most of the kalashtar who come to Sharn. A variety of businesses catering to the Adarans hide in the depths of Overlook: a crystal worker, a school of meditation and martial arts, a tailor specializing in Adaran fashions, and a few restaurants serving Adaran cuisine. Few people outside the community know about these places.
There are no inns in Overlook, but the Adarans take care of their own. Kalashtar or Adarans who come to Overlook can usually find shelter with one of the local families, although they are expected to behave graciously and in some way to repay the generosity of the host; however, the Adarans value news or wisdom as much as gold.
While the Adarans add exotic color to Overlook, they only account for a third of the population of the district. Most of the other inhabitants are humans, halflings, and dwarves who work in Upper or Middle Dura.

**The Gathering Light**: The Adarans and kalashtar are concentrated on the northern edge of Overlook. Adaran citizens have pooled their resources to rent a large hall, the Gathering Light, that serves as an anchor for the community. During the day, the hall functions as a school, where people come to study kalashtar martial arts and meditation techniques. In the evenings, the people gather to celebrate their heritage. Activities at the gatherings vary considerably. Some nights song, dance, or other forms of art play a dominate role, while other nights involve serious discussions of philosophy, metaphysics, or current events.
Selkatari (LN female kalashtar monk 7) oversees martial training and monastic discipline at the Gathering Light, while Hanamelk (LG male kalashtar) serves as the resident scholar and sage. These two also work together to protect the community from crime and violence, using diplomacy when possible and force when reason fails.

**Hilatashka**: Hidden away in the shadows of one of the gray towers, the Hilatashka restaurant serves Adaran cuisine. Meals are reasonably priced, around 6 cp per person, but the quality is exceptional. Providing vegetarian fare that mostly consists of cold dishes and soups prepared with a range of subtle spices. Kalashtar have an exceptionally well-developed sense of taste, and it can take some time for members of other races to learn to appreciate the delicate blends of spices and herbs used in Adaran meals.

**The Shrine of il-Yannah**: The kalashtar-constructed shrine of il-Yannah, the Path of Light, occupies a small parapet at the top of a tall tower. From the breathtaking views to the Sarlonan incense that scents the air, the shrine radiates a calm, otherworldly peace. Tapestries with intricate, labyrinthine patterns cover the walls and floor, adding to the exotic nature of the place. The enlightened Havakhad (LG male kalashtar), a powerful psion whose frail body is beginning to fail, tends the shrine and rarely wanders far from this location. Havakhad gladly offers advice and spiritual guidance to any follower of the Light who comes to meditate at the shrine, and he sometimes uses precognition on behalf of those he considers to be champions.

**Redstone** (Shops)

> Handsome towers of red marble and granite packed with various shops and crafters offer a seemingly endless array of goods. The brick hanging streets are filled with milling customers and the occasional unfortunate begging for copper and silver.

One of the newer districts, Redstone is less than two hundred years old and many of the respectable crafters from the Bazaar of Middle Dura have moved here in recent years. The architects sought to overcome the negative perceptions of Dura, and the stonework is beautiful. Much of it was crafted using red marble from Rose Quarry, once a thriving Cyran supplier which now lies in ruins in Darguun. The rest of the towers consist of red granite and brick. With a host of subtle variations in shade, the towers present a striking sight, especially in the light of the setting sun.
Redstone has grown into one of the largest centers for commerce in the city, nearly twice the size of Granite Halls. Almost any sort of honest trade can be found in Redstone, from bakers to wigmakers. There are two banks in Redstone, including a Kundarak enclave and the smaller Lorrean Bank, a family business belonging to one of the sixty great families of Sharn. The district also contains workhouses that draw on the population of Overlook, including a glassworks and a textile factory.