#organization #law [[Dolom]]

The Sharn Watch is the overarching organization that enforces the laws of the city. The sentinels of the Watch patrol the streets of Sharn, ever vigilant for signs of unrest. Unfortunately, the Sharn Watch is riddled with corruption, from the commanding officers down to the patrols. There are a few dedicated guards who truly want to protect the innocent. But bribery runs rampant, and the watch has a way of never showing up at the same time as Daask or the Boromar clan. And aside from the general problems of greed, cowardice, and corruption, the watch commanders focus their forces on protecting the wealthy and powerful citizens of the city.

The Sharn Watch and its subordinate branches have the authority to enforce the laws of Breland throughout the city of Sharn. The agents of the King’s Citadel stand above the Watch, and can assume control of any criminal investigation at
any time. Members of the Watch are expected to provide agents of the Citadel with their full support. The Citadel generally only takes control of cases involving treason or espionage, but anything that could pose a threat to Breland falls under their domain.

There are places in Sharn where the Watch won't go. The Cogs. Fallen. Hostelhome. If an adventure takes the party down into the Depths, the Watch won't be there—for better or for worse. To a lesser degree, this is true of any of the lower wards.

Sharn is rife with corruption. The captains of the Sharn Watch are largely on the payroll of the Boromar Clan, and half of the members of the Watch have done muscle work for the Boromars. Guards who are on the take look the other way or wander off when something bad happens. This is a case where the guards can do favors for the villains that they won't do for the adventurers. Just because a guard takes gold from the Boromars doesn't mean that he'll turn on them for a
platinum piece. The Boromars have reputation and history, and the guard knows that 1 gp a month adds up over the years. Money’s no good to a dead man, and as far as the Watch is concerned, that’s what you become if you cross the Boromars.