#adventure 

### Background

Masters of the Esoteric Arts is an epic adventure told across the entirely of a large kingdom known as Hyrule. Set many years after the events of the Great Calamity, and the subsequent Upheaval, Hyrule exists in a state of disarray and rebuild at the same time. Player characters will adventure across old familiar towns, interesting ruins, and new locations spread across the land.

Recommend starting the players at Level 2, then leveling them up quickly (after the Yiga are introduced in The Chase adventure in [[Hyrule Castle Town]]). Players can expect to progress to level 15 or 16 by the end of the adventure.

Location:: [[Hyrule Field]]
Location_General:: [[Central Region]]
Type:: Main

### Hook(s)

The Introduction preface below should be shared with the player characters prior to the first adventure session. This then follows immediately into The Approach.

### Synopsis

- The action begins when Castle Town comes under attack by the Yiga and its allies, just prior to the new Queen's coronation.
- Characters can intervene to save townsfolk, but not before attackers carry away an important scholar.
- While rescuing that captive from the Yiga, characters learn what they are up against.

### Scene 1: Introduction (Player Preface)

This story's preface should be shared with the player characters prior to the first adventure session.

>It's been 40 years since both Calamity Ganon and Ganondorf were defeated, and the Kingdom of Hyrule is on its way back to thriving. But there are rumors of a dark red or purple material seen seeping out of the earth at certain places once again…
>
>The memory of Queen Zelda and King Link is still relatively fresh in peoples' minds and their travels throughout the land are well documented - from Zora's Domain (who reluctantly embraced Zelda knowing her history with Mipha) to Kakariko Village (where the Sheikah were as loyal to her as ever) to Hateno Village (where they recognized her as the rightful reincarnation of Hylia). Finally, they settled back into Central Hyrule and began to direct the rebuilding of the Castle as well as the outlying regions of the Kingdom. With the work underway, they retreated into the privacy of the capital and no one heard from them for many years. One day, all members of the Kingdom were called upon to gather at the Castle. When everyone arrived, they saw King Link standing on the balcony without Queen Zelda, but holding a child. He declared that Zelda had died in childbirth, and presented the new Princess to the Kingdom - also named Zelda in honor of her mother.
>
>Upon her 20th birthday, it was announced that Zelda would be crowned as Queen, and a large celebration was planned at the Castle. Many people from all over the kingdom piled into carriages and made their way to the center of Hyrule. Including you!

### Scene 2: Introduction (DM Only)

This information should NOT directly be shared with player characters, but will help drive the story for the DM.

Even with the Demon King Ganondorf gone, the Yiga have slowly gotten more organized and better prepared (especially after the ousting of their previous leader, Master Kohga). They have restructured into three specialized divisions, each led by a member who goes only by their title: Mighty Yiga, Monk Yiga, Master Yiga. The Mighty Yiga's group has claimed the Dusk Relic Chamber (beneath the Gerudo region, whereas the Gerudo have reclaimed the old Yiga hideout), and have stolen the young male child just born to the Gerudo. The Monk Yiga's group has claimed the Amber Relic Chamber, and are spending their time continuing experimentation with the Zonai technology that remains. And the Master Yiga and his followers reside in the Jade Relic Chamber and is responsible for drawing the purple Malice-like substance from The Depths below and contaminating the various dungeons with it.

The final boss might be someone called the "Magus Yiga", an Astor (from Age of Calamity)-like character who is drawing power from the Poes in The Depths, but when he runs out of Poes to draw from he starts sacrificing Yiga Footsoldiers. The players might encounter him several times during the game, from a distance, gathering the souls.

The Yiga thought that the coronation ceremony at the Castle would be the perfect opportunity to cause havoc, so they planted bombs on many of the carriages and locations around Hyrule Castle Town. The players will need to discover all of the sources of Malice (and destroy them) while managing the Yiga threat. Each dungeon in the game will be a location where the Malice has emerged and corrupted a creature (the dungeon's boss).

### Scene 3: The Approach

As players approach Castle Town, they see a large number of caravans convening in the area - other travelers to the same coronation ceremony. Unfortunately the peaceful congregation is short lived, as explosion soon rock the entire area.

>For the past several days, you and your companions have been traveling a road that winds lazily across the rolling grasslands of Central Hyrule. Sundown is approaching as you crest a hill and see Castle Town just a short distance away.
>
>In addition to the increased noise from a number of other convening caravans, you swear you hear a loud rustling sound in nearby bushes. Suddenly, an explosion rocks the carriage and throws people in all directions! You see some shadow-shrouded figures off in the distance, as a group of monsters appear through the smoke.
>
>Roll initiative!

In this encounter there will always be one **Black Bokoblin** (CR 1/2) as the leader, as well as 1d6 additional **Red Bokoblins** (CR 1/8) in the group.

`encounter: 1: Black Bokoblin, 1d6: Red Bokoblin`

### Conclusion

As the encounter comes to a close, the players see the shrouded figures (Yiga Footsoldiers) run toward Castle Town. They will not know who exactly they are or where they're headed (to the Prison in the northern Government District) and will need to ask around. The adventure continues in Hyrule Castle Town as part of the [[1. The Chase]] adventure.

### References
