#adventure 

### Background

During the Era of the Hero of the Wild, the Sheikah Towers retreated back into the ground, including the great Shrine of Resurrection. But after the Upheaval settled down, the Sheikah were able to re-build something almost as grand at the former location of the Shrine of Resurrection. They now use their technology in order to keep an eye on the world, to ensure that Ganon or the Calamity don't return. A new type of Sheikah monk tends the shrine, and each room of the shrine correlates to each region of Hyrule.

Location:: [[Great Plateau]]
Location_General:: [[Central Region]]
Reward:: [[World Map]]
Type:: Side

### Hook(s)

Any NPC from the Great Plateau will mention this place, especially any of the Champions of Hyrule.

### Synopsis

- Each room of the shrine correlates to each of the eight regions of Hyrule, and points out the major features of each (including factions and protectors). A secluded ninth room alludes to the Underground and Depths and the presence of the Yiga.
- A World Map, for their own ongoing reference, should be obtained from the Sheikah monk before the PCs leave this area.

### Scene 1: Central Chamber

>You enter into a large chamber, in the center of which is a nearly mummified Sheikah sitting cross-legged in a glowing cube. In front of the cube is a huge mural which depicts Hyrule Castle prominently in the middle, the Temple of Time and Eastern Abbey to the south, and two villages on the eastern edge. There is a large blue stylized sword symbol with two "heads" on a plaque directly over the mural. You see doors all around you in every direction, with the door from which you entered to the west.

If the plaque is inspected (DC 12 Investigation check) then a plate with the words "Champions of Hyrule" is found.

### Scene 2: Eldin Chamber (North)

>You enter a smaller chamber to the north. In the center of the room is a huge mural which depicts a gigantic volcano in the east with a large forest to its west, with an area between them near the mountain pulsing subtly with a dark purple glow. There is a large swirly green symbol on a plaque directly over the mural. There's a red jewel embedded in the bottom of the mural. The east side of the room is covered in rocks with what appears to be a doorway dug out of the middle. The west side of the room is covered in trees, but you can make out a gap in the trees which becomes pitch black.

If the plaque is inspected (DC 12 Investigation check) then a plate with the words "Deku Protectorate" is found. A DC 14 Investigation check on the red jewel reveals the appearance of a fiery dragon within the jewel.

### Scene 3: Akkala Chamber (North-East)

>You enter a smaller chamber to the north-east. In the center of the room is a huge mural which depicts a towering citadel with a settlement at its base, a town surrounded by water to its east, and beautiful fall foliage all around. There is a large yellow bird symbol with a Triforce above it on a plaque directly over the mural, and a cyan jewel fragment embedded in the bottom of the mural. There seem to be barely noticeable tunnels under the floor of this room.

If the plaque is inspected (DC 12 Investigation check) then a plate with the words "Soldier's Guild" is found. A DC 14 Investigation check on the cyan jewel fragment reveals the appearance of a large fairy in a flower within the jewel.

### Scene 4: Lanayru Chamber (East)

>You enter a smaller chamber to the east. In the center of the room is a huge mural which depicts a small village on the west fridge dotted across islands, a large glittering stone city surrounded by water, and a small empty lake on a mesa to the city's immediate south-east which appears to pulse subtly with a dark purple glow. There's a blue jewel embedded in the bottom of the mural. The floor of the entire room is a reflecting pool of water.

A DC 14 Investigation check on the blue jewel reveals the appearance of an icy dragon within the jewel.

### Scene 5: Necluda Chamber (South-East)

>You enter a smaller chamber to the south-east. In the center of the room is a huge mural which depicts a Sheikah village in the north-west and a city surrounded by a stone fortified wall and lush with farm fields in the south-east. There's a large purple eye symbol with three lashes above and a teardrop below on a plaque directly over the mural. There's a yellow jewel fragment embedded in the bottom of the mural. The floor is covered in soft grass.

If the plaque is inspected (DC 12 Investigation check) then a plate with the words "Sheikah Seekers" is found. A DC 14 Investigation check on the yellow jewel fragment reveals the appearance of a large fairy in a flower within the jewel.

### Scene 6: Faron Chamber (South)

>You enter a smaller chamber to the south. In the center of the room is a huge mural which depicts a small fishing village in the south-east, a large concentration of stone ruins in the center, a lush forest in the north-east and a massive lake in the north-west. Both the forest and lake appear to pulse subtly with a dark purple glow. There's a green jewel embedded in the bottom of the mural. A section of the floor appears to descend downward.

A DC 14 Investigation check on the green jewel reveals the appearance of a dragon covered in crackling electricity within the jewel.

The section of the floor that appears to descend downward is a small elevator that takes a short descent to Scene 9.

### Scene 7: Hebra Chamber (North-West)

>You enter a smaller chamber to the north-west. In the center of the room is a huge mural which depicts a village of elevated platforms in the west, a tall labyrinthine structure in the north-east, a snowy series of peaks in the north-west, and a plateau in a state of perpetual storm in the east. One of the snowy peaks and the plateau both appear to pulse subtly with a dark purple glow. There's a magenta jewel fragment embedded in the bottom of the mural.

A DC 14 Investigation check on the magenta jewel fragment reveals the appearance of a large fairy in a flower within the jewel.

### Scene 8: Gerudo Chamber (South-West)

>You enter a smaller chamber to the south-west. In the center of the room is a huge mural which depicts an adobe village in the middle of a desert, a circle of seven statues on the edge of the desert in the east, a large statue in the snowy highlands in the north, and a tall labyrinthine structure in the south-east. The circle of statues and the large snowy statue both appear to pulse subtly with a dark purple glow. There's a white jewel fragment embedded in the bottom of the mural.

A DC 14 Investigation check on the white jewel fragment reveals the appearance of a large fairy in a flower within the jewel.

### Scene 9: Underground Chamber

>You make a short descent to a chamber beneath the others. A huge mural depicts a large cave system, most of which is interconnected, including a large central chamber with three chambers branching off of it. There appear to be other paths that lead even deeper into the earth somehow. There's a large red eye symbol with three lashes below and a teardrop above on a plaque directly over the mural. 

If the plaque is inspected (DC 12 Investigation check) then a plate with the words "Yiga Clan" is found.

### Conclusion

When the players go to leave the area, the Sheikah Monk should call out to them (the first time he speaks, with the single word of "Halt"). They then see a paper map magically floating toward them from the cube that the Monk is in. This is the World Map that the players can use as a reference throughout the rest of the game. Ideally give them a real-life paper copy (or digital version to reference). 

### References
