#adventure 

### Background

Players sleep in the beds inside a shrine and are teleported into a small dungeon where each floor (navigated separately - split the party!) is a different character's nightmare based on their worst fears (gathered beforehand). On the last floor they re-convene and find the monster that had been eating everybody's good dreams (a Night Hag).

Location:: [[Windvane Village]]
Location_General:: [[Hyrule Field]], [[Central Region]]
Reward:: [[Potion Medal]]
Type:: Side

### Hook(s)


### Synopsis

- 

### Scene 1: The Dreams

Each PC will be required to navigate their own dream. Ask the player what dream their character is exploring and walk through it with them. If at any point an NPC is needed to drive the dream forward, it will be a female humanoid who is actually the Night Hag in disguise.

Step through each PC sequentially. Roll initiative to determine order, or just pick.

### Scene 2: The Battle

As each PC completes their dream, they find themselves in a large stone chamber that's empty save for any other party members who have finished before them. Once everyone has arrived, the Night Hag reveals herself.

The Night Hag is a CR 5 creature, so could be a challenge for an early party but almost certainly not for a later. That's okay, she doesn't have to serve as a significant challenge, as the point of this is to explore the characters' fears and backstories.

`encounter: 1: Night Hag`

### Conclusion

Once the Night Hag is defeated, the illusion dissolves away and the players find themselves back in the Dream Shrine waking up from their bed. In the room now is a treasure chest which contains the Potion Medal.

### References
