#adventure 

### Background

The main castle gates hang open during the day, welcoming any without ill-will who wish to visit. At night, the gates are closed to any without a special invitation.

Location:: [[Hyrule Castle]]
Location_General:: [[Hyrule Castle Town]], [[Central Region]]
Reward:: [[Life Medal]] and [[Book of Mudora]] (hidden)
Type:: Side

### Hook(s)


### Synopsis

- 

### Scene 1: Observation Room

>You enter a small circular chamber with a pedestal in the center which houses a shining sword. There are a number of guards eying you closely. Hallways extend to the east, west, and north.

The first room serves as the home of the Master Sword, where it sits on display. There is nothing much else of interest here, and if anything is touched then guards will yell at the party to not touch anything.

### Scene 2: Guards' Chamber

>This is a smaller room with a single guard standing at a locked door to the north. There are a few furnishings scattered about, including a bookcase with a few scattered books.

A very attentive guard has a key to a locked door the party must pass through. Attempting to pickpocket him will likely end in failure (although there's a slight chance of it working, recommend a DC 20 Sleight of Hand check). The party is able to gather clues from a diary left on a bookshelf by said guard about his likes and dislikes, and the names of his superiors. To get the key, the party could give the guard a chalice of his favorite drink laced with some sort of nonlethal sleeping agent, or impersonate a superior he's only met once or twice to reassign him (with a "new guard" in his place that the "superior" brought along).

Attempting a combat-based solution will result in the guard sounding the alarm, causing a deadly encounter. Include this guard as a **Soldier** (CR 1/2) as well as 1d6 additional solders.

- Likes: Cream of Mushroom Soup (any mushroom, any other vegetable/herb/flower, fresh milk, rock salt), Fruit Pie (any fruit, goat butter, cane sugar, tabantha wheat)
- Dislikes: Curries
- Superiors: Captain Catoll and General Burlon

`encounter: 1d6+1: Hylian Soldier`

### Scene 3: Second Gatehouse

This room essentially just connects the Guard's Chamber to the East Passage. If the walls are inspected, the party may discover certain discolored stones, one on the east wall and one on the west. If the west wall stone is pressed in, then a weapons rack will move revealing a passageway leading to Zelda's Room (Scene 6). If the east wall stone is pressed in, a winding downward staircase is exposed behind another weapons rack which leads to The Docks (Scene 9). The weapon racks are metal and can also be moved with the **Magnetic Glove**.

### Scene 4: East Passage

As the party enters the outdoor Courtyard, they see the current Captain of the Hylian Guard training the Guard in combat. He challenges the party to a battle as a demonstration.

`encounter: 1: Hylian Captain`

### Scene 5: Dining Hall

>This is a large chamber which appears to serve as a kitchen and/or dining hall. There are a number of large tables, as well as shelves fully stocked with a variety of food items. There is a large cooking pot on the far wall, a large door to the north, and a smaller door to the northeast.

There is little of danger in the castle's dining hall. The party can gather a variety of food items (for the challenge in Scene 2) in addition to healing potions hidden among the shelving.

### Scene 6: Zelda's Room / Study

There are a variety of papers and books scattered throughout the room, from which the players can gather information about various ongoing side quests throughout the world.

- A book called "The Greatness of Fairies" talks about the Great Fairy fountains in various regions of Hyrule: one in a central forest, one on a western cliffside, one on an eastern bluff, and one in an expansive desert.
- Some scattered research papers refer to the power present in the souls of Poes. It seems that Zelda has been able to find Poes all over Hyrule at night. It also references a special lantern from the Poes themselves that can be used to house the souls.
- An historical book called "The Princess' Journey" references the three fountains and their important magics.
- A successful DC 15 Investigation check will reveal the **Book of Mudora** on one of Zelda's shelves.

### Scene 7: Library

>This appears to be a large library, with numerous bookcases lining two of the walls, and an exit to the west. The other two walls house two exceptionally large paintings each. There are statues standing in front of each of the four paintings. One of the statues appears to be holding something.

One of the statues is holding a plaque with the number 3 on it. As the players go to inspect one of the paintings or statues, the door shuts and locks behind them. The players need to find the three remaining plaques and put them on the correct statue to get out of the room. Each painting depicts the following and has the appropriate lettered plaque hidden behind it (which in order spell the word YIGA):

- Four scarecrows scattered in a sprawling amber field (A)
- Three stables dotted across an expansive map (G)
- Two adjacent raised plateaus in the desert highlands (I)
- A single tall tower in the middle of a large raised plateau (Y)

If the walls are inspected (or any Perception check of DC 12 or greater), the party may discover a discolored stone, which can be pressed to expose a downward spiraling staircase behind a bookcase that leads to The Docks (Scene 9). Alternatively, the bookcase could be moved (with a DC 18 Strength check, the _magnesis_ spell, or the **Magnetic Glove**).

If the **Book of Mudora** wasn't already found in Scene 6, the same DC 15 Investigation check will reveal it sitting on a bookcase here instead.

### Scene 8: King's Study and Armory

>You enter a large chamber that appears to be an armory or study. A dozen platforms house wire framed mannequins. Each is sporting an ornate armor, that is well polished and hasn't been affected by the passing of time. Dotted around the chamber are various dusty books and scrawled drawings that depict various locations around Hyrule.

Unfortunately, half the suits of armor are cursed. Donned armor that is cursed cannot be removed unless a remove curse spell is cast on the recipient.

`dice: [[1. Hyrule Castle#^hyrule-castle-random-armor]]`
`dice: [[1. Hyrule Castle#^hyrule-castle-random-curse]]`

### Scene 9: The Docks

>You enter a vast chamber that appears to serve as a partially indoor dock. You are on a large raised area, and there's a wide stone staircase that leads down to the docks themselves. There are a number of metal crates scattered about, and an exceptionally large torch in the center of the raised area.

This is an entirely optional area that can only be discovered via the Gatehouse secret entrance, the Library secret entrance, or the outside access. When the party enters, they will immediately notice an exceptionally large Olympic sized torch. Lighting it in some manner will result in 1d8 **ReDeads** (CR 1/4) emerging from the ground.

`encounter: 1d8: Redead`

### Scene 10: Throne Room (Sanctum)

>You enter a grand room, in which two curved staircases on either side meet at an elevated throne platform in the middle of the room. Metal decoration above the large throne bears the symbol of the Triforce and a circular music scale depicting the notes of a song. Sitting on the throne is Link, the current King of Hyrule, with a Yiga next to him holding a blade to his throat.

When the party enters the Throne Room, they see that the King of Hyrule ([[Link]]) is sitting on the large throne in the middle of the room. Next to him is what appears to be a Yiga (based on the party's previous encounter), even though he looks different from the last one. The Yiga has a blade to the King's throat and threatens the party not to come any closer.

`encounter: 1: Yiga Warrior`

The circular music scale above the throne depicts "Zelda's Lullaby" (see [[1. Central Windvane and Warp Songs]]).

### Conclusion

Once the Yiga Warrior is defeated, Captain Catoll will rush in with the Hylian Guard, who will escort King Link away. Captain Catoll will reward the party with something from the royal treasury, as well as random rupees:

- **Life Medal**
- `dice: 4d6*10` rupees

### Random Tables

| d4  | Armor       |
| --- | ----------- |
| 1   | Scale Mail  |
| 2   | Chain Mail  |
| 3   | Plate Mail  |
| 4   | Banded Mail |
^hyrule-castle-random-armor

| d8  | Curse                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| --- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1   | Brittle: The armor shatters if a natural 20 is rolled against it. Scraps of metal embed into the wearers skin as the suit shatters. For each +1 to AC the suit grants, roll 1d4 of damage             |
| 2   | Attraction: Each missile fired within 60' of the wearer is redirected toward them. Arrows and bolts seem to find the least protected areas of the wearer. Resolve rolls as if the wearer has no armor |
| 3   | Lethargic: The armor is rigid and stiff. Your movement is reduced to one quarter and you attack once every other round                                                                                |
| 4   | Beacon: All random monster encounters are doubled while the armor is worn                                                                                                                             |
| 5-8 | Uncursed                                                                                                                                                                                              |
^hyrule-castle-random-curse

### References
