#adventure 

### Background

To begin this simple adventure, the players need just enter the Crenel Hills (eastern residential) district of the city. A guard will approach them, requesting them to meet a petty lord, named Arront, and to tell no one what they were doing. Neither the guard nor Arront tells the PCs details, but can offer a great sum of money as incentive.

Location:: [[Hyrule Castle Town]]
Location_General:: [[Central Region]]
Reward:: [[Treasure Medal]]
Type:: Side

### Characters
```dataview
table without id file.link as Name, Race, Gender, Age, Occupation, Comments
from #npc
where contains(Adventure, this.file.link)
sort Type, file.name
```

### Hook(s)

* Central Region Rumors table (so many NPC can mention)
* Entry into the Crenel Hills district will immediately trigger a guard to approach, asking the players to meet a petty lord.

### Synopsis

- 

### Scene 1: Outer Courtyard and House Guards

There are about half a dozen guards lounging around on crates in an open courtyard. The remains of dinner, some bread and mutton, are lying on a barrel, and a few of them are actively involved in a game of dice, where no one seems to be the winner. The guards are extremely ill-tempered for several reasons, including a recent cut in pay, and therefore are actively looking for a good scruff. There are several crates of wine in the corner. If overheard long enough, several guards can be heard to speak of "Master Jangle-Keys" and his latest drinking binge.

### Scene 2: The House Steward

The house steward, named Kendtal, is a small, weaselly man in grand, nearly gaudy, robes with dark hair and pale skin, he also has the habit of wringing his many-ringed hands. Kendtal is dedicated, and a little overzealous, and will, at first, simply not allow the PCs in to see his master and he can, at a word, call dozens of guards to aid him in repelling intruders. He also has a strong penchant for wine. So much so that, for the right amount of wine, he may suddenly remember much more important things to do elsewhere.

### Scene 3: Lord...

When the PCs reach the door to Lord Seliverous's private rooms, it opens and a worried face, with dark eyes and hair, and a slightly crooked nose, connected to a richly robed body, appears. With many a word of gratitude, Seliverous pulls the PCs into his outer chambers. But before he will explain his problem, the lord insists on them taking refreshment with him. The drinks are laced with a fairly powerful sleeping draught that should safely put the PCs out for a few hours.

### Scene 4: ...And Killer

The PCs wake to find that all their weapons and more valuable items have been removed, and that they have been moved to a deep pit. Scattered among the rocks are numerous, if rusty, weapons ready to grab up. Standing on the edge of the pit is Lord Arront, and after the appropriate gloating and monologuing he reveals that he was hired by the Yiga to knock off the PCs, then he leaves. Next, a gate opens in the wall and a **Red Lynel** (CR 3) comes out to feed on the helpless adventurers.

`encounter: 1: Red Lynel`

### Conclusion

After defeating the Lynel, if the PCs look around (DC 12 Perception), they will find the body of Cubal apparently killed by the same Lynel. Searching the body (DC 12 Investigation) will reveal a [[Treasure Medal]] that was used to draw him into the manor.

### References
