#adventure 

### Background

On the Great Plateau, a great fog rolls in at night, so thick that the remainder of Hyrule below the plateau can't even be seen. The Champions of Hyrule will warn the party of this and that everyone stays inside at night. But they will also note that spectral figures have been seen in the fog, glowing with power. While they haven't hurt anyone yet, they ask the party to investigate and take on the spectral foes known as Big Poes.

Location:: [[Great Plateau]]
Location_General:: [[Central Region]]
Reward:: 300 rp
Type:: Side

### Hook(s)


### Synopsis

- 

### Scene 1

On the Great Plateau, a great fog rolls in at night, so thick that the remainder of Hyrule below the plateau can't even be seen. The Champions of Hyrule will warn the party of this and that everyone stays inside at night. But they will also note that spectral figures have been seen in the fog, glowing with power. While they haven't hurt anyone yet, they ask the party to investigate and take on the spectral foes known as **Big Poes** (CR 4). There are four Poes, one in each of the following locations: Forest of Spirits, River of the Dead, Mount Hylia, and the former location of the Shrine of Resurrection.

`encounter: 1: Big Poe`

When the party returns to General Burlon or Father Leon, the results will depend on whether they have gotten the **Poe Lantern** from the Hyrule Castle Town Museum. If they have, then they will give the party 300 rupees and explain how the souls can be stored in the lantern until they find someone who wants them. If they don't have the lantern, then they will give the party 300 rupees and offer to buy each of the souls for 100 rupees each. They then explain that the souls will dissipate the next morning unless they're stored in a Poe Lantern, and that there is one at the Museum in Hyrule Castle Town.

### Scene 2


### Conclusion


### Random Tables


### References