#adventure 

### Background

When the PCs enter the plateau, have them do a Perception Check. Depending on how good the roll is, the players can possibly discover different interesting things about Hyrule around and below them (from their heightened vantage point).

Location:: [[Great Plateau]]
Location_General:: [[Central Region]]
Type:: Side

### Hook(s)


### Synopsis

- 

### Scene 1

When the PCs enter the plateau, have them do a Perception Check. Depending on how good the roll is (read descriptions for all the DCs they exceed, up the the highest DC), the players can possibly discover these things:

**DC 5: Kakariko to the East**
>The first thing you notice is a city off in the distance to the east of the Plateau. It appears to be lit up by lanterns and is probably a few hours travel from here.

**DC 10: Vague notice of clouds in the distance** At this level, don't give any additional details about the number of clouds or their locations.
>As you look our over the land of Hyrule, you notice from your heightened perspective that there are a number of dark clouds over various areas of the world. They appear abnormal and to have an almost purple tint to them.

**DC 15: Cloud numbers** If you have a player who has a deep understanding of Hyrule geography, you can give a vague descriptions of some locations (possibly with another check). Otherwise just give the number.
>You can see from here that there are seven clouds spread out across the land. The one over the desert seems to be larger than the others.

**DC 20: Cloud locations** These are intentionally vague, but other details of particular locations can be expounded upon if appropriate for your characters (backgrounds, home towns, etc.)
>There is a cloud over a forest in the south-west jungle. A cloud extends across the home of the Zora's in the east. You can barely make out another cloud at the edge of your vision in the north-east. The normal smoke ring that extends from Death Mountain seems to be darker and have a purple tint. There is a shadowy forest to the west of Death Mountain that has a dark purple cloud over it. One of the snowy mountains in the north-east appears to be peaking through a dark cloud. The largest, darkest, purple-est cloud is hovering over the desert in the south-east.

### Scene 2: 


### Conclusion


### Random Tables


### References