#adventure 

### Background

Sanidin Park, on the western edge of Hyrule Field, has completely rebuilt as a horse racing track where residents from Hyrule can come and bet on (or participate in) horse races. The open area formerly known as Nima Plain is now the large horse racing track, and the former Sanidin Park Ruins on the hill is the viewing area and betting office.

Race tracks in the real world are measured in furlongs, which is about 1/8 of a mile or 200 meters, with 6 furlongs being a standard race length.

Location:: [[Hyrule Field]]
Location_General:: [[Central Region]]
Reward:: [[Golden Horse]]
Type:: Side

### Characters
```dataview
table without id file.link as Name, Race, Gender, Age, Occupation, Comments
from #npc
where contains(Adventure, this.file.link)
sort Type, file.name
```

### Hook(s)

* If the PCs choose to learn how to ride horses at Lon Lon Ranch, anyone there could direct them to Sanidin Park next.
* Any NPCs at Outskirt Stable could mention Sanidin Park, especially in relation to Satori Mountain.
* NPCs at Serenne Stable could mention Sanidin Park as well.

### Synopsis

- The players are presented two options: watch races and bet on them, or participate in up to three races with increasing difficulty and slightly different mechanics.
- The grand prize for winning all three races is a rare horse with exceptionally good stats and a golden color.

### Option 1: Placing Bets on Races

If the PCs prefer a more passive activity, then they can just place wagers on the races that are going on. Use the [[Horses]] random tables to generate a list of four horses, then ask each PC to place their bets.

Run a Horse Race card game (but with six cards, one for each furlong, instead of eight), with each suit tied to one of the randomly generated horse's names. The winning player wins the pot (minus 10% for the house).

### Option 2: Participating in a Race

Each race is six furlongs, with each furlong being 600 feet (approximately - actually 660 feet, but the 600 works better for rounding), meaning a full race is 3600 feet. Race actions take one minute, so speeds covered are generally the horse's base speed multiplied by 10 (meaning a one-star horse can cover one furlong at their base speed in one action).
* So theoretically a five-star Speed horse with at least one-star Stamina could cover 2000 feet in one race action, finishing an entire basic race in two actions.

Players can choose to, or may be required to, take additional actions on top of just moving at the horse's base speed. This will likely only include the Dash action for a basic race, but may include the Jump action or others for more advanced races.

To start the race, roll Initiative for each race participant, including at least one horse controlled by the DM (rolled randomly). Then move in Initiative order throughout the race, adding up the distance covered in each round until at least one horse exceeds the 3600 feet needed to complete the race. If there's a tie, the horse with the higher Speed wins the race (unless there are other extenuating circumstances).

The races progress as outlined below, and the players can do as many or as few as they like. All races will have to be won in order to win the grand prize though (see Conclusion).

#### Race 1: Basic (Flat)

The basic race is just 6 furlongs (3600 feet) long with no obstacles or anything. The race progresses as outlined above, with each player moving or taking actions during their initiative.

The player (or DM, who should be running a horse as well) who finishes the race first wins.

#### Race 2: Steeplechase

The steeplechase race adds hurdles and pits that the players are required to jump over. An obstacle occurs every 1000 feet or so, resulting in three obstacles per race. The first and third obstacle is a wooden hurdle, and the second obstacle is a large pit, all of which can be cleared with a single successful Jump action (or possibly a creative approach if the players don't have enough Stamina).

The player (or DM, who should be running a horse as well) who finishes the race first wins.

#### Race 3: Archery

The final race is similar to the basic race, but it adds mounted archery goals for the player as well. The horse can still take its normal action, and the player can take their action to fire an arrow at a target, of which there are six throughout the course (one per furlong). Players may use their own bow if they possess one, in which case they'll roll their normal to-hit - otherwise players may borrow a short bow from the Sanidin Park stash, but they will likely not be proficient in using it. The difficulty of the check (technically the AC of the to-hit) is 10 plus the horse's Speed rating (which is doubled if the horse is currently Dashing). So riding a 2-star Speed horse would require a to-hit of 12 or more, which would increase to 14 if the horse were Dashing.

The player (or DM, who should be running a horse as well) who has the most archery targets hit after finishing the race (NOT the first to finish) wins this race.

#### Optional Race: Endurance

One other option, if the players would like more racing options (possibly to make money) is to do an endurance race. This would be the same as the flat (basic) race but at two or three times the length (multiple laps around the track). This will stretch the players' resources, as they only have so much stamina too use, but it shouldn't be too long so it isn't boring.

### Conclusion

The grand prize for winning all three horse races is the rare Golden Horse (see [[Horses]] for stats).

There should be rupees or something offered as a prize for each individual race.

### References

* https://gathertogethergames.com/horse-race
* https://www.doubledtrailers.com/length-in-horse-racing
* https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Steeplechase_(horse_racing)
