#adventure [[Great Plateau]]

### Background

During the Era of the Hero of the Wild, the Sheikah Towers retreated back into the ground. But the Sheikah of the time were able to preserve one of the shrines, which had been known as the Shrine of Resurrection. They used the technology in order to keep an eye on the world, to ensure that Ganon or the Calamity didn't return. A Sheikah monk tends the shrine, and each room of the shrine correlates to each region of Hyrule.

### Hook(s)


### Synopsis

- 

### Scene 1: Atrium
>You enter into a large chamber, in the center of which is a nearly mummified Sheikah sitting cross-legged in a glowing cube. In front of the cube is a huge mural which depicts Hyrule Castle prominently in the middle, the Temple of Time and Eastern Abbey to the south, and two villages on the eastern edge. There is a large blue stylized sword symbol with two "heads" on a plaque directly over the mural. You see doors all around you in every direction, with the door from which you entered to the west.

If the plaque is inspected (DC 15 Investigation check) then a plate with the words "Champions of Hyrule" is found.

### Scene 2: Eldin Chamber (North)
>You enter a smaller chamber to the north. In the center of the room is a huge mural which depicts a gigantic volcano in the east with a large forest to its west, both of which appear to be pulsing subtly with a dark purple glow. There is a large swirly green symbol on a plaque directly over the mural. There's a red jewel embedded in the bottom of the mural. The east side of the room is covered in rocks with what appears to be a doorway dug out of the middle. The west side of the room is covered in trees, but you can make out a gap in the trees which becomes pitch black.

If the plaque is inspected (DC 15 Investigation check) then a plate with the words "Deku Protectorate" is found. A DC 15 Investigation check on the jewel reveals the appearance of a fiery dragon in the jewel.

### Scene 3: Akkala Chamber (North-East)
>You enter a smaller chamber to the north-east. In the center of the room is a huge mural which depicts a towering citadel with a settlement at its base, a town surrounded by water to its east, and beautiful fall foliage all around. There is a large yellow bird symbol with a Triforce above it on a plaque directly over the mural. There are noticeable tunnels under the floor of this room.

If the plaque is inspected (DC 15 Investigation check) then a plate with the words "Soldier's Guild" is found.

### Scene 4: Lanayru Chamber (East)
>You enter a smaller chamber to the east. In the center of the room is a huge mural which depicts a glittering stone city surrounded by water, including a large empty lake to its immediate south-east. The lake appears to pulse subtly with a dark purple glow. There's a blue jewel embedded in the bottom of the mural. The floor of the entire room is a reflecting pool of water.

A DC 15 Investigation check on the jewel reveals the appearance of an icy dragon in the jewel.

### Scene 5: Necluda Chamber (South-East)
>You enter a smaller chamber to the south-east. In the center of the room is a huge mural which depicts a Sheikah village in the north-west and a city surrounded by a stone fortified wall in the south-east. There's a large red eye symbol with three lashes above and a teardrop below on a plaque directly over the mural. The floor is covered in a lush grass.

If the plaque is inspected (DC 15 Investigation check) then a plate with the words "Sheikah Seekers" is found.

### Scene 6: Faron Chamber (South)
>You enter a smaller chamber to the south. In the center of the room is a huge mural which depicts a small fishing village in the south-east, a stable in the west, a large concentration of stone ruins in the center, and a lush forest in the north. The forest appears to pulse subtly with a dark purple glow. There's a green jewel embedded in the bottom of the mural.

A DC 15 Investigation check on the jewel reveals the appearance of a dragon covered in crackling electricity in the jewel.

### Scene 7: Hebra Chamber (North-West)
>You enter a smaller chamber to the north-west. In the center of the room is a huge mural which depicts a village of elevated platforms in the west, a small village in the badlands of the north, a stable in the east next to a canyon, and a snowy series of peaks in the north-west. One of the peaks appears to pulse subtly with a dark purple glow.

### Scene 8: Gerudo Chamber (South-West)
>You enter a smaller chamber to the south-west. In the center of the room is a huge mural which depicts an adobe village in the middle of a desert, a circle of seven statues on the edge of the desert in the east, a large statue in the snowy highlands in the north, and what appears to be a large hole between the highlands and desert's northern edge. The circle of statues appears to pulse subtly with a dark purple glow.

If the plaque is inspected (DC 15 Investigation check) then a plate with the words "Yiga Clan" is found.

### Conclusion


### Random Tables


### References