#adventure 

### Background

In order to discover the identity and location of the shrouded creatures the PCs saw previously (in [[0. Introduction and The Approach]]), they will need to explore the city and ask questions. They enter the city in the south Central Square merchant district and will need to make their way to the Prison in the northwest.

Location:: [[Hyrule Castle Town]]
Location_General:: [[Central Region]]
Type:: Main

### Hook(s)

* A number of shopkeepers are present within the distract and broader town who can identify a number of shrouded figures who just ran through in a northwesterly direction, but none will know their final destination.
* Any number of guards in the northern district could have seen the figures going toward the prison.

### Synopsis

- After exploring Hyrule Castle Town, the players discover that the shrouded figures were headed to the town's Prison. Upon entry, they immediately discover that one cell is open and the former prisoner is gone. Another cell is still occupied and the prisoner can be questioned by the players. The former prisoner was a scholar and expert in Malice.
- The prisoner can show the players how the other prisoner escaped, through a loft space above the prison. When they get up there, they're attacked by a Yiga Footsoldier.
- When defeated, the Yiga Footsoldier disappears in a puff of smoke, and the players get a chance to question Cubal about the Yiga. He directs them to Kakariko Village to speak with the Sheikah Seekers.

### Scene 1: The Guard House

The first room in the prison complex is where the guards are housed and routinely stand guard. There is little of interest here, and even speaking to the guards will yield little information. They contend that no one has visited the prison recently, and assure the PCs that the cells are searched twice a day - with the next search scheduled for an hour from now. They allow the PCs to search the prison if they desire.

### Scene 2: The Prison

>You enter a dank and dirty prison, where you immediately notice that one cell stands wide open. While most of the other cells are empty and uninteresting, one contains a ragged-looking Hylian male. There appears to have been a confrontation here recently.

As the players enter the prison, they will immediately notice that one of the cell doors stands open, and there is no one contained within. There is one other individual in another cell (for all intents and purposes the other cells are empty or uninteresting), a Hylian thief named Cubal.

Speaking to Cubal will reveal that two shrouded figures recently entered the prison, masterfully picked one of the cell locks, and absconded with the prisoner. The person within that cell was a well-known scholar who had been recently imprisoned for his research into a dangerous substance known as Malice. He was very quiet and mostly kept to himself (besides muttering about his research in his sleep), but he believes his name was Dulolph.

Should the players choose, and have the skills, they can pick the lock of Cubal's cell. A low enough roll (or especially critical fail) may alert the guard outside to their activity. Otherwise if they succeed (DC 15 Sleight of Hand), Cubal may be persuaded to assist in the fight ahead.

### Scene 3: The Confrontation

Cubal advises the PCs of the route the shrouded figures took out of the prison, and recommends they follow the same path. It involves climbing the cell bars in order to reach a loft space above the prison, then out through the roof. A successful DC 10 Acrobatics or Athletics check will be necessary to climb up there. Once the PCs reach the loft, a shrouded figure emerges from the shadows. He removes his hood to reveal his face and addresses the players:

>How dare you fools attempt to follow us! Do you think you can face the might of the great Yiga Clan? I doubt you can even manage to defeat me - a mere footsoldier!

`encounter: 1: Yiga Footsoldier`

The players roll initiative and fight a lone **Yiga Footsoldier** (CR 2). After the fight the Yiga speaks again before disappearing in a puff of smoke:

>You think you've bested me, but the Yiga aren't so easily matched! I'll return to our hideout to warn the clan.

The Footsoldier disappears into a puff of smoke. At this point the PCs are free to exit the prison from the obvious access through the roof. They may attempt to ask Cubal about the Yiga and their hideout. He won't know details, but will know of the Yiga Clan and that they're basically a guild of thieves and troublemakers. He can recommend the PCs visit Kakariko Village to gather more information from the Sheikah Seekers, who the Yiga split off from many decades ago. He also notes that the Great Plateau has a higher vantage point than any other place in Hyrule, and would be a good place to scout points of interest.

### Conclusion

At the conclusion of this adventure, it should be clear to the players that their next best route is to the Great Plateau or Kakariko Village. They could also continue to explore Hyrule Castle Town or Hyrule Castle itself. 

### References
