#adventure 

### Background

The Haunted Museum is primarily a way to introduce and obtain the Poe Lantern for later adventures ("Poes in the Fog" on the Great Plateau and the Trading Sequence). Secondarily, players can look around and possibly obtain some random Zelda callback items by defeating Poe spirits.

Location:: [[Hyrule Castle Town]]
Location_General:: [[Central Region]]
Reward:: [[Poe Lantern]]
Type:: Side

### Hook(s)

* Random NPCs around Hyrule Castle Town can mention the presence of the Museum (also part of the Central Region Rumors table).
* If the players get to the Great Plateau without the Poe Lantern, members of the Champions of Hyrule can mention its believed location as part of the Poes in the Fog adventure.
* If the players get all the way to the Dueling Peaks stable without the Poe Lantern, then the stable owner can opine about how he'd rather be off chasing and gathering spirits in his retirement, and mention rumors he's heard of a Poe Lantern that's being kept in the museum in Hyrule Castle Town.

### Synopsis

- The Museum is primarily a way to introduce and obtain the Poe Lantern for later adventures. Secondarily, players can look around and possibly obtain some random Zelda callback items by defeating Poe spirits.

### Scene 1: The Museum

>You enter a large stone building, and see a number of dusty artifacts on pedestals and shelves. It is eerily quiet and there doesn't appear to be another soul in the building. A large sign over the entryway door says "Do Not Touch Anything".

There's not another soul in the building - or so they think. The instant any object in the building is touched, the PCs hear the quiet yet distinct sound of a Poe. Should they choose to take anything from the museum, the Poe (CR 4) will attack. If the party is able to defeat the Poe, they can keep the object. They are also welcome to attempt to take as many objects as they like, as long as they can defeat the Poes. You may choose to make the Poes more difficult or add more of them as needed, or also choose to add or change any of the below items.

#### Available objects
* 1d20 (`dice:1d20`) pots scattered about (each with 10 rupees inside if broken)
* DC 8 Investigation: A metal and glass lantern in a display case in the middle of the room ([[Poe Lantern]])
* DC 10 Investigation: A slightly frayed net perched against a wall (Bug‑Catching Net)
* DC 12 Investigation: A saw-toothed device in the back of the room (Hunting trap)
* DC 15 Investigation: A mouse-faced object half-hidden behind an urn (Bombchu)
* DC 18 Investigation: An oddly un-rusted hammer on a pedestal (Megaton Hammer)
* DC 20 Investigation: A slingshot-like object sitting on a shelf (Seed Shooter)

There is a glowing bottle in an obvious display case (Poe Bottle). When opened, one or more random enraged monsters are summoned. The bottle seems unbreakable by any sort of normal means. When left somewhere or buried, it mysteriously shows back up in the inventory of the last player who touched it. Anytime someone is left alone with the bottle they must make a successful saving throw to resist opening it. The bottle is undoubtedly cursed and becomes bound to whoever touches it.

### Conclusion

The only special item that the players should obtain from here is the **Poe Lantern**, which can be used on the Great Plateau to capture Poes for money and will also be needed to start the Trading Sequence. If the players don't find or attempt to grab the **Poe Lantern**, then have a friendly spirit named Elliot appear to them and beg them to take the Lantern with them - which he thinks will help set his trapped soul free.

### References
