#adventure 

### Background

If the players inquire about or enter the cemetery, describe a large mausoleum with big stone doors that sits in the center. The doors swing open easily if they try, and they find a large underground chamber.

Location:: [[Hateno Town]]
Location_General:: [[Necluda Region]]
Reward:: [[Protection Ring]]
Type:: Side

### Hook(s)


### Synopsis

- 

### Scene 1: Entryway

>Six alcoves line this hall, each one numbered from one to six. On the floor of each alcove, a luminous stone dimly glows. From the hall's far end rifts a low moan. There, barely visible, sobs the apparition of a small girl hovering over a discarded rag doll. "Names, names," she cries. "I can remember them all except the one I need."

The spirit, Dolora, is a harmless apparition who won't engage the party in combat. If threatened, she vanishes and reappears at the opposite end of the hall, sobbing anew. If approached with compassion, Dolora bemoans the fact that she can't pick up her doll until she speaks its name, which she has forgotten. She refuses to leave this place without the doll.

Dolora, who only recalls fragmented memories of her life, can't answer many questions (she also can't leave the hall and avoids the alcoves). This is particularly true about the messages associated with the alcoves in the hall. While Dolora can't answer vague questions about the stones' clues (such as "Who is this talking about?"), she can provide the names of specific people when prompted. For example, if a character asks directly, "What was your mother's name?" Dolora provides the correct response. She also spells out the name, which is a clue that the spelling is important.

#### Ragdoll
If the characters examine the rag doll or ask Dolora about it, she imparts the following information:

>"My doll knows all six - the first for the first, the second for the second, the third for the third, the fourth for the fourth, the fifth for the fifth, and the sixth for the sixth."

### Scene 2: Alcoves

The hall is lined with six alcoves, each one with a unique numeral between 1 and 6 carved above it. A verse scratched into the back wall of each alcove is made visible by the luminous stone glow. Each verse is presented below, accompanied by a parenthetical explanation that shouldn't be shared with the players or their characters:

 - Verse 1. "Not his keeper, nor he mine; loved and hated at the same time." (This refers to Dolora's brother, whose name was Sam)

 - Verse 2. "My first vision: her hazel eyes. My first sound: her lullabies." (This refers to Dolora's mother, whose name was Delia)

 - Verse 3. "Her lives she lost, all three by three, and through the dark this hunter sees." (This refers to Dolora's cat, whose name was Fifi)

 - Verse 4. "Lines in his face of life lived long; stories were his paternal song." (This refers to Dolora's grandfather, whose name was Tobias)

 - Verse 5. "Mentor and guide, her lessons learned. Knowledge measured by letters I earned." (This refers to Dolora's teacher, whose name was Johana)

 - Verse 6. "Loved to eat hay, just as her friends did; lived in one room with a ghoat and a kid." (This refers to Dolora's horse, whose name was Alexia)

Each verse describes someone who was close to Dolora. Once the characters determine who a verse is talking about, they may ask Dolora to provide the correct name. For example, "What is your cat's name?" is a valid question for verse 3. The spirit then answers, "Fifi," and she spells it aloud.


### Conclusion / Solution

Once the characters learn all six names, they must extract one letter from each name, as noted in the below table. An alcove's number determines which letter to extract; for example, "Alexia" is the name connected to the verse in alcove 6, and the sixth letter in that name is A.

| Alcove | Name | Letter |
|:----:|:-------|:-------|
| 1  | Sam    | S |
| 2  | Delia  | E |
| 3  | Fifi   | F |
| 4  | Tobias | I |
| 5  | Johana | N |
| 6  | Alexia | A |

The doll's name is Sefina. Once Dolora is told this, she picks up the doll, speaks its name, and disappears with it, her spirit having been laid to rest. Left behind is a small ring where Dolara was - a **Protection Ring**.

#### Hint Checks

Any character has the option of making these ability checks to receive a hint:
 - **Charisma (Persuasion) DC 10.** Dolora thinks of the character as her friend. When this character figures out the answer to a riddle, Dolora calls out the name of the person it's about unprompted (for example, as soon as the character says "mother" aloud, Dolora calls out "Delia").
 - **Charisma (Intimidation) DC 15.** The character frightens Dolora into divulging information. She tells the character that she remembers the names of people she knew. Dolora also reveals that it's important that their names be spelled correctly, though she doesn't say why.
 - **Intelligence (Investigation) DC 15.** The character interprets Dolora's cryptic clue about the doll as follows: "all six" refers to the six letters of the doll's name, which can be determined by gathering information from the verses in the six alcoves.

### References

