#adventure 

### Background

Location:: [[Eventide Island]]
Location_General:: [[Necluda Sea]], [[Necluda Region]]
Type:: Side

### Hook(s)


### Synopsis

- 

### Scene 1: Getting to the Island

#### Resort Ship

Rozel's Resort Ship departs from Lurelin Island and makes regular voyages out to the island and back. If the party chooses to pay for the ship, then no storm hits and no checks are required.

[[2. Rozel's Resort Ship]]

#### Sailing

If the party decides to obtain their own ship and sail to the island, then a storm is encountered on their way there. The PCs have to succeed on a number of skill checks (5 successes before 3 failures) in order to get through (examples below).

- Acrobatics (DC 10): You find a loose rope and tie it off.
- Athletics (DC 15): You climb the rigging to secure the sails.
- Strength (DC 15): You see the helm deviate, and use your strength the grab it and force it back on course.
- Investigation (DC 10): You notice ropes before they snap and manage to correct them.
- Nature (DC 15): Your knowledge of the wind and waves allows you to suggest an alternate course to the captain which might allow him to steer out of the storm.
- Perception (DC 15): You detect the scent of a fresh wind coming in. Your keen eyes see a break in the storm off in the distance. You recommend that the captain alter course to find calmer seas.
- Arcana (DC 15): Your knowledge of magic leads you to believe that this storm is artificial in some way. Your analysis allows you to recommend course corrections to the captain.

If the party doesn't succeed in enough checks, they ship wreck on the island and have to proceed without their equipment (which they can find scattered about, including being held by various enemy camps).

If the party performs the checks well, they land safely and have all of their stuff to explore the island at their leisure.

### Scene 2: Arriving on the Island

A hostile race of fish people have been encroaching on the island (for some unknown reason) and attacking the few people who live there. When the players get to the island, they can decide how to handle the situation. Interestingly, when the island residents are questioned, they say that the creatures attacking have called themselves "Zora", but they look nothing like the Zora they know.

The only two residents of the island are being held hostage by the newly arrived hostile "Zora" (enemy [[Zora]], or Zola), in their primary camp on the ring island east of the main island. Additional Zola camps (containing 1 Zola Chief and 1d8 Zolas) exist on the northern end of Toronbo Beach and the rocky area on the southern end of the island just west of Koholit Rock. If any of the hostile Zola are questioned or captured, they give the players information about the primary camp in the east (but no insight into their motivations).

`encounter: 1: Zola Chief, 1d8: Zola`

If the party lost their equipment from a ship wreck (see above), then have them find at least one piece per player at each of the three enemy camps.

### Scene 3: Primary Zola Camp (Geozard Order)

The main Zola camp is located on the small ring-shaped east of the mainland Eventide Island, closest to the sea. Here several Zola Chiefs have taken the residents of the island captive, and are being assisted by a number of Zola henchmen as well. Only the Zola Chiefs here will provide any insight into their motivations if questioned. The Zola have an underwater city that's not far from the island in the sea depths east of here. Once they observed humanoids from the mainland setting up residences here (where it had only been monsters or temporary residents before) they began to feel threatened that there might be some sort of invasion coming (it wouldn't be the first time their lands have been invaded). So the Geozard Order, the mightiest of the Sea Zora, decided to take the initiative and capture the new humanoids before they could capture them.

`encounter: 1d3+1: Zola Chief, 1d8+1: Zola`

### Scene 4: Heading to the Underwater City

If the players would like the explore the Sea Zora's life and motivations more, then they could be welcomed into their underwater city if they spare at least one of the Geozard Order Chiefs. This may be achieved by convincing them to let the prisoners go rather than fighting them in the first place, or some other creative solution or use of the Persuastion skill.

The important thing to remember in the course of any discussion is that the Sea Zora aren't necessarily aggressive for the sake of aggression, they are just protective of what little they have. They have been attacked before by other races of the Great Sea (which we won't explore in this campaign), and have become more territorial with time. They also know so little of their history because much of it has been lost from previous attacks.

[[2. Seabed City and the Ruinous Trench]]

### Scene 5: Returning to the Island

#### Gliding Course Mini-Game

One of the minigames run here is a gliding course run by the resident Rito, Mimo. This would require some method of floating/gliding (such as an item like the Roc's Cape), but Mimo does not allow other Rito or those with natural flight to play, since that would be cheating.



### Conclusion

If the island residents are rescued from capture, then they will return to their homes. In this case, they will re-open the games they run if the players return to the island at a later time (see Scene 5 above). If the residents aren't rescued or are somehow killed in the encounter, the Geozard Order would have no reason to stick around and would return to Seabed City. In this case, there would basically be nothing left on the island (save for forage items).

### References

