#adventure [[Cotera]]

### Background

The Great Fairy of Courage can be found in a forest outside of Kakariko Village. The Great Fairy's flower hasn't been open in recent memory, and there's a rumor that a piece of the fairy's power can be found nearby (which may open the flower up). Anyone giving the hook may recommend the party start their search for the Fairy Fragment in the woods east of Kakariko Village known as Phalian Highlands.

Location:: [[Kakariko Village]], Phalian Highlands
Location_General:: [[Necluda Region]] 
Reward:: [[Fairy Fragment (Yellow)]]
Type:: Main

### Hook(s)

The players can either happen upon her flower, where the Great Fairy can be heard through the flower, or Pikango in Kakariko or an NPC in Hateno can mention her.

### Synopsis

- There are four fairy fountains around Hyrule, each of which can grant benefits to certain classes of players. Cotera can improve a Fighter, Opportunist, or Scion.
- Each of them requires a small fetch quest prior to opening their flower bud up, which usually consists of an overworld miniboss fight. Cotera's Yellow Fairy Fragment is being held by a Hinox at Phalian Highlands.

### Scene 1: The Fairy Fragment

When the party arrives at Phalian Highlands, they find a sleeping **Red Hinox** (CR 4). They can get in a surprise round if they don't wake the Hinox on approach. When the Hinox drops, a Yellow Fairy Fragment is found left behind.

`encounter: 1: Red Hinox`

### Scene 2: The Fairy Fountain

At the Fairy Fountain outside of Kakariko, the party will need to present the Yellow Fairy Fragment for the flower to open. Cotera then explains that she is the Great Fairy of Courage, and can give a unique gift to a single Fighter, Opportunist, or Scion.

 - **Fighter:** Increase Constitution score by 2 (gaining Stamina points as well)
 - **Opportunist:** Increase Dexterity score by 2 (gaining Stamina points as well)
 - **Scion:** Increase Charisma score by 2 (gaining Magic points as well)

The fairy will enchant the relic, and as long as a player character carries it (requires attunement) they get the specific benefit.

### References
