#adventure 

### Background

Location:: [[Kakariko Village]]
Location_General:: [[West Necluda]], [[Necluda Region]]
Type:: Main

### Hook(s)


### Synopsis

- 

### Scene 1: Seeker Hall

As the players enter Seeker Hall, they immediately encounter Paya, who explains the Seeker mission and mentions the various other factions around Hyrule.

>As you approach the largest building in Kakariko Village, you can't help but admire the unique architecture. These artificial wooden structures seem to somehow follow the specific contours of the hilly and mountainous topography. A large staircase adorned with wooden arches and lanterns leads to a heavy front door, which pushes open surprisingly easily. You're welcomed into a dusty yet distinguished interior, where a young Sheikah woman stands prominently.
 
The players can choose to either converse with Paya at this point, or roll for information. A DC 10 Perception or History check will give information on the eye symbol that represents the Sheikah Seekers (assume someone in the party would have heard of them). If the players roll, Paya can comment on them noticing the eye symbol to move on to the next discussion, where Paya says:

>The Sheikah Seekers aren't the only faction in Hyrule. I'm sure you've noticed the increased prevalence of monsters in the area. If you want to take them on, you'll need to become more powerful, and seeking out these factions may be the best way to do so.
>The Champions of Hyrule are headquartered out of both the Temple Barracks and Eastern Abbey on the Great Plateau in the center of Hyrule. They have both a martial and magical arm, so should have a variety of advice and information.
>The Deku Protectorate station themselves deep within the Korok Forest in order to fulfill their mission of protecting nature. Being finely attuned to nature, they could know more about the source of these monsters.
>The Soldier's Guild is rebuilding Akkala Citadel in the east as a military barracks and town. No one has more military prowess than this group, and they are very familiar with the goings-on of eastern Hyrule.
>The final faction should generally be avoided. The Yiga Clan are said to have a base somewhere in Hyrule, but no one is certain where. They are also a chaotic faction who broke from the Sheikah long ago, so I can't recommend you approach them.

If the players would like more direction, Paya can provide additional hints. Otherwise the party is welcome to continue to any of the areas already mentioned.

>As for us, the Sheikah Seekers travel throughout Hyrule and are familiar with a variety of areas, even though you won't often see us. Rumors speak of an ancient tribe who once inhabited the Faron region south of here. It's likely there could be some powerful artifacts found in that area. Alternatively, you could approach Hateno Village east of here if you need additional information or supplies. There's also an old fort there that could train you further.
  My grandmother, Impa the Village Elder, has something for you as well.

### Scene 2: Impa and the Sheikah Slate

Impa, an elderly woman, is seated in the corner across from Paya.

>"I overheard your conversation with my granddaughter. If you're to succeed in your adventure, you'll need some help. This Sheikah Slate is said to have once been used by Queen Zelda herself. As you explore Hyrule, the Slate will map the topography. It can also detect certain objects and notify you, so stay perceptive!"

If checked, the Slate contains the map of Hyrule already marked with the locations Paya mentioned.

The Sensor functionality can be used for adventure hooks. A Perception roll can lead the carrying player (or another if they fail) to discover that the slate is beeping or flashing in some way, and is detecting a nearby item or location.

### Conclusion



### References
