#adventure 

### Background

Seabed City is the home of the Sea Zora, who are also known as Zola. The Sea Zora aren't necessarily aggressive for the sake of aggression, but they are protective of what little they have. They have been attacked before by other races of the Great Sea (which we won't explore in this campaign), and have become more territorial with time. They also know so little of their history because much of it has been lost from previous attacks.

This adventure will allow the players to explore the Sea Zora's city if they so choose, as well as help them further elucidate their history by exploring some nearby ruins.

Location:: [[Necluda Sea]]
Location_General:: [[Necluda Region]], [[Great Sea]]
Type:: Side

### Hook(s)

* The players can be brought to the city by any of the Zola of the Geozard Order at Eventide Island if they ask any questions.

### Synopsis

- 

### Scene 1: Seabed City

The idea here is that there are two different leaders who see things very differently and the players will likely end up needing to take a side. One is the leader of the Geozard Order who is uninterested in any additional information about his peoples' history (and would actually work to destroy information that might turn people against his military campaign) and is more interested in moving forward by expanding their territory. The other is a more civic leader who is desperately searching out any information about her peoples' history, since much of it has been lost during attacks by others over the years.

Either leader may send the party to the Ruinous Trench, but possibly for different reasons.
- The military leader may send them to investigate a tip his order has received about a dangerous monster in the area, that he'd appreciate help with before it potentially reaches the city. He'd likely be willing to send some Zola to accompany them. He would also insist on destroying any historical information the players may find.
- The civic leader may send them to specifically search out whatever historical information that can be found in the ruins. She would also warn the party about the military leader's intentions to destroy irreplaceable history.

### Scene 2: The Ruinous Trench

The Ruinous Trench is a deep trench in the ocean that's filled with stone ruins which appear to be Zonai in origin. The idea here is litter historical documents and architecture about that allude to a history of the Sea Zora being descended from the Zonai (and the River Zora not, as they're descended from the Parella).

There's also a dangerous monster here, probably an aboleth.

### Conclusion



### References

 * "The Nightsea's Succor" from Journeys Through the Radiant Citadel (pg. 168-181), specifically the "To The Nightsea" section (pg. 175-181).
