---
Location: Hickaly Woods
Location_General: West Necluda, Necluda Region
Theme-Mechanic: Corruption and Protection
Recommended-Order: 1
Type: Dungeon
---

#adventure #dungeon [[Necluda Region]]

In the middle of a deep forest once known as Hickaly Woods, a well sits among what appears to have once been a lovely glade. Now, the trees around it are dying and rotting on the spot, and light appears to struggle to reach the glade.

The nearby stable, formerly known as the Dueling Peaks Stable, has been abandoned due to the evil energy emanating from the well.

```ad-info
title: Area Features
 - ***Ceilings***. The ceilings are made of stone and rise 10 ft. above the floor.
 - ***Floors and Walls.*** The floors are made of neatly cut stone while the walls are made of a cobbled granite.
 - ***Doors.*** The doors are made of solid stone. They're all unlocked unless otherwise stated.
 - ***Lighting.*** The well is pitch black, save for light coming from the ceiling in the central chamber.
 - ***Unusual Features.*** The well is crawling with various types of corruption - from Purple (Poison) ChuChus to Malicious Mold.
```

>As you trek your way through the woods, you immediately notice that the environment is quickly changing. The large deciduous trees that once surrounded you have given way to dying and rotting equivalents that have become even more dense. As you proceed, you eventually encounter an open glade with a large well in the middle. At the edge of the well is the body of a horse with a golden mane and a dirt-caked white hide.

### Scene 1: The Corrupted Unicorn

The fallen horse is the unicorn named Ehlonna-Vassorum. If a creature approaches him, he weakly turns his head to look at the creature, revealing that the creature’s golden horn has turned almost pitch black. It telepathically says:
>“Please… I am dying. I need your help.”

If asked to explain the situation, the unicorn knows the following information:
* The spring that normally feeds the well was defiled with dark magic.
* He drank from the well before the corruption became visible, and is now being eaten from the inside out by the evil magic.
* The dark magic has severed his connection to Hylia and thus sealed his magic. If the spring is cleansed, its water can undo the corruption.
* Hylia left her ancient followers a ritual to cleanse the spring in case it was ever corrupted. Unfortunately, those followers have long since died out, and only creatures with hands can perform the ritual. The unicorn looks forlornly at his hooves as he says so, then gestures to the well.

After the unicorn gestures, he says one last thing:
>“My eyes grow cloudy… I sense I have only moments before the corruption claims me. A statue of my lady Hylia resides below… she bears a tablet with… the instructions.”

The unicorn then falls into a catatonic slumber. Nothing short of drinking the sacred water (and being cured of his poison) will save him. The curse that is killing him is too powerful to be broken by remove curse; its power is directly linked to an evil plane and cannot be broken by any spell except *wish*.

### Scene 2: Falling Down the Well

As the players approach the well, they notice an odd breeze that's emanating from the bottom of the well and moving upward. *Detect magic* or a similar spell will reveal the presence of transmutation magic. If the players were to just jump into the well, *feather fall* would be automatically cast on them and they would safely drift to the bottom. Alternatively they could come up with their own way to get to the bottom.

### Scene 3: Inside the Well

#### W1. Central Chamber

>You land in a large circular chamber, with unblocked exits to the east and west, and a locked door to the north. Two small grates, seemingly for drainage, dot the floor.

There is nothing of value or interest in this room, save for the two small grates in the floor that don't appear to serve a purpose beyond possibly drainage. Upon a small ledge above the south wall sits a pillar with a strange circular symbol on it (DC 15 Investigation). Going east will lead to W2 and west will lead to W3. The **Rusty Key** in W3 is needed to unlock the door, which leads to W4.

The ledge above the south wall leads to a door to area W5, but requires the hookshot to anchor to the pillar and get up there (or another creative solution). There is **malicious mold** hanging on the upper section of the cliff ledge, preventing players from climbing the cliff.

#### W2. Malicious Mold

>This smaller circular chamber has a purple substance all over the walls. There are a number of stone pots scattered about, and the only way out is the way you came.

All walls in the room are covered in **malicious mold**. The stone pots contain random rupees if destroyed.

`encounter: 1d6: Malicious Mold`

```ad-info
title: Mold, Malicious
Patches of malicious mold are most commonly encountered in dark, damp locations, and grows in 5-foot square and larger patches. If disturbed, the malicious mold releases a cloud of acid in a 10-foot radius around itself. Creatures caught in the cloud take 11 (2d10) acid damage and must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or be stunned for 1 minute. The creature takes an additional 5 (1d10) acid damage at the start of each of their turns and can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of their turns, ending the effect on itself on a successful save.

Malicious mold is instantly destroyed by fire damage or sunlight.
```

#### W3. Rusty Key

>You enter another nondescript circular stone chamber, and see only a number of purple chuchus in the center.

The room contains 1d8 **ChuChus (Purple)** (CR 1/8). When defeated, one drops a **Rusty Key**.

`encounter: 1d8: ChuChu` (Purple)

#### W4. Miniboss

>You enter a large circular chamber with a single tropical tree in the center and water pools throughout - as if you were outside. As you move further into the room, a swordsman in a green tunic appears to challenge you!

`encounter: 1: Hero of Forest`

A swordsman wearing a green tunic appears to challenge the party, and the door out of the room slams shut. Once he's defeated, a chest magically appears containing a treasure, and the door opens back up.

Miniboss:: [[Hero of Forest]]
Miniboss-Treasure:: [[Hookshot]]

Immediately (stay in initiative), the water in this chamber starts to turn purple, and two grates in the floor of area W1 open, causing purple water to slowly pour into that chamber as well. The water rises at a rate of 1 foot per round, with 5 or more feet of water requiring the players to follow rules for swimming. The players may make a new Perception check (DC 10 now) to reveal the pillar above the south wall from before, which they now notice would serve as a good anchor point for the newly obtained hookshot (or if they already noticed the pillar, remind them of it for free).

#### W5. Endless Staircase

>The next room immediately opens to only a large staircase, which is completely dark. You enter the staircase and begin to descend. Save for a loose step every now and then, the stairs are extremely well-made.

As the party walks down the stairs, they enter a looping section of existence that spans 20 feet long (20 steps, with each step approximately a foot long). There is 'magical darkness' preventing them from seeing any more than 20 feet in front of or behind them (and therefore seeing themselves). The stairs are surprisingly well-made; as a DM, mention how pristine and perfectly carved/crafted they are. Note that every 20 steps, there happens to be a loose section of stair - this can be moved, revealing a button that will dispel the magic and open a side door out of the stairwell.

Try not to make a big deal of the step until a character performs a decent investigation roll (DC 12) on it.

#### W6. Corrupting Circle

>You enter a room with nothing but a runic circle on the floor. There are closed stone doors to the east and west, with a statue near the west door and a switch on a ledge near the east one.

A DC 12 Arcana check or *detect magic* spell will reveal the presence of conjuration magic emanating from the runic circle. Anyone who breaks the plane of the circle must make a DC 15 Wisdom save. Failure has the victim immediately paralyzed, and 1d8 **ChuChus (Purple)** (CR 1/8) fall from the ceiling. Each time a ChuChu is defeated, a single drop of acid lands on the paralyzed player, resulting in 9 (2d8) acid damage.

`encounter: 1d8 Chuchu` (Purple)

A statue of a small plant with a tongue sticking out (a pikit, which the players wouldn't recognize), but covered in **malicious mold**, can be seen near the west door. Using the hookshot on it will pull the tongue out further and open the west door leading to area W7.

A switch sitting on a small ledge above the east door can be struck by the hookshot to open that door, leading to area W8. The switch is surrounded by **malicious mold**, preventing a character from climbing up there and striking it manually.

#### W7. The Pikit Patch

This room contains 1d6 Pikits (CR 1), which immediately try to lash their tongues out toward the party.

`encounter: 1d6: Pikit`

#### W8. The Berry Patch

>You enter a room that's overgrown with vegetation. Bushes full of purple and green berries surround a small pool of water in the center of the room.

* **Goodberry.** Eating a purple berry restores 1d10 hit points, and the berry provides enough nourishment to sustain a creature for one day.

* **Succu-berry**. Any creature eating a green berry must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw, taking 5 (1d10) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. The target's hit point maximum is reduced by an amount equal to the damage taken. This reduction lasts until the target finishes a long rest. The target dies if this effect reduces its hit point maximum to 0.

#### W9. Boss

>As you enter the room, you see nothing but a beautiful spring in the center of the room. Suddenly a large gelatinous Chu drops from the ceiling, covering the spring. You can see purple energy flowing through it.

`encounter: 1: Malicious Chu`

When the boss is defeated, it melts into a puddle of goo that dissolves completely and leaves behind the treasure, as well as a green medallion with a swirl symbol on it. And the party levels up!

Boss:: [[Malicious Purple Chu]]
Boss-Treasure:: [[Cane of Byrna]]
Reward:: [[Sage Medallion]] (Forest)

#### W9. The Unicorn's Spring

The corrupted spring is a circular pool of water with a 20-foot radius. The island in the center is a small mound of earth with a 10-foot radius. (Thus, only a character who can jump 10 feet can jump from the edge of the pool to the island without touching the water.) The pool is only 3 feet deep.

A creature that begins its turn in the corrupted water or touches it for the first time on its turn takes 3 (1d6) poison damage.

On the island is a statue of the goddess Hylia, holding three stone tablets in her hands. Upon the tablets are written the following:
* My sacred spring is a gift unto you, my faithful. Should evil ever profane it, I gift unto you the method to restore it.
* Recall the fable of the eight archdruids. Long ago, eight mighty druids resided within this forest in three houses. Five were women, three were men, and together they made eight. In the end, all eight found love in pairs. Four of the druids settled within one house, four settled within another, and the third house was left empty and was reclaimed by the forest.
* At my feet rest three blessed vessels. Fill them with the profaned water in the manner of the eight druids, and speak my name with hope in your heart.

The three jugs are made of simple clay, but have somehow withstood the centuries. On the face of one is marked VIII, on the face of another is marked V, and on the face of the third is marked III. They seem to be of inconsistent size and weight, and have no measurement markings. These pristine vessels are gifts from the goddess Hylia, and cannot be marked or blemished in any way. If a character uses their action to try to physically or magically mark the jug, that character must succeed on a DC 13 Constitution saving throw or take 3 (1d6) poison damage.

**Puzzle Solution.** The solution to this puzzle is somewhat obscured by the fable of the archdruids. One jug can hold 3 gallons of water, one can hold 5 gallons of water, and one can hold 8 gallons of water. In order to solve the puzzle, one jug must contain 4 gallons of water, another jug must contain 4 gallons of water, and the other must be empty.

The characters must fill the 8-gallon jug to the brim from the pool, and use the other two jugs to divide the water until 4 gallons of water are in the 8-gallon jug, 4 gallons are in the 5-gallon jug, and 0 gallons are in the 3-gallon jug. This solution must be reached before the unicorn dies. The quickest solution takes eight steps:
* Fill the 8-gallon jug to the brim from the pool. [8, 0, 0]
* From that jug, fill the 5-gallon jug. [3, 5, 0]
* From that jug, fill the 3-gallon jug. [3, 2, 3]
* Pour the filled 3-gallon jug into the 8-gallon jug. [6, 2, 0]
* Pour the contents of the 5-gallon jug into the empty 3-gallon jug. [6, 0, 2]
* Fill the 5-gallon jug from the 8-gallon jug. [1, 5, 2]
* Fill the 3-gallon jug from the 5-gallon jug. [1, 4, 3]
* Empty the 3-gallon jug into the 8-gallon jug. [4, 4, 0]

**Success.** If the characters solve the puzzle and speak Hylia’s name aloud, completing the ritual, all three jugs flash with golden light, and tendrils of energy extend from the jugs into the pool. The water shines with golden light, then fades to a pristine, almost mirror-like surface. A gurgling of water can be heard as the empty jug fills to the brim with purified sacred water. Dribbling this water into the unicorn’s mouth awakens him.

### Scene 4: The Escape

A large hole has been opened up in the ceiling where the **Malicious Chu** fell, leading back to W1. The walls of the well are smooth to make climbing difficult, but there are hookshot anchors spaced evenly up the length. The party can use the hookshot repeatedly to ascend, or use some other creative approach to get up (but they can't backtrack due to the Endless Staircase in W5). Once back in area W1, the *feather fall* spell has been dispelled, and the party can continue their ascent back to the surface.

### Conclusion

**Failure**. If the characters do not solve the puzzle of the spring, the unicorn makes a loud choking noise. Read or paraphrase the following:

>You turn and see the unicorn’s horn turn completely black, his lustrous white coat turn dull and dun, and his golden mane fade to ashen gray. His chest stops rising. A dismal silence settles over the glade. Then, a dull rumbling echoes around you. The trees seem to close in, and the light filtering in through the canopy dims.
>Then the unicorn stands. Its horn has crumbled to dust, and a ghastly mist surrounds its body. It gazes upon you with glowing red eyes — then its entire body flares with crimson light as its mane and tail erupt into roaring flames.

The corrupted unicorn has become a **nightmare** (CR 3).

`encounter: 1: Nightmare`

**Success.** If the characters saved the unicorn, he stands tall and proud as strength returns to his body. The inky-black shell around his horn begins to crack and streams of golden light shine through, until the darkness is dispelled with a loud CRACK and the entire horn glows with light. The unicorn bows his head to you and says:
>"My name is Vassorum, guardian of this wood. I am in your debt.”

He bows before the characters and vows to travel with them and protect them for a full month, before returning to this spring.

### References
