#adventure 

### Background

Legend speaks of a magnificent battle between Ifrandis, the Blue Magister, and an elder dragon that he summoned at the pinnacle of his studies. The fight ended as Ifrandis slew the creature and took it's still pulsing heart back into his tower, only to die from its potent poison, which turned his blood to water in a short time. Rumor is that Ifrandis may have been Gerudo, which is even more rare since a male is only born every hundred years.

Ifrandis is not yet dead however, but not truly alive either, having become transformed into a strange elemental creature by the power of the dragon heart. As part of the structure is under water, it should be suggested that players have a means to gain water breathing for this dungeon (such as Air Elixirs).

Location:: Zonai Ruins (Pagos Woods), [[Highland Stable]]
Location_General:: [[Faron Grasslands]], [[Faron Region]]
Reward:: [[Ether Medallion]]
Type:: Side

### Hook(s)

A Gerudo woman located at Highland Stable, can direct the party to the Tower of Ifrandis. She plans to study the tower whether the PCs accompany her or not.
* She greets the PCs with a terse "Sav'aaq". If there is a female member of the party, she will choose to only address her. If the party is all male, she will keep the conversation very short.
* If the party inquires about her reasons for being here, she'll tell them about the nearby Zonai ruins that she's studying. She plans to explore the ruins to find proof of Ifrandis's Gerudo heritage, but she has heard it is extremely dangerous. If they choose, she will accompany the party to the Tower of Ifrandis - of which she knows the location.
* She also suspects the tower may contain great and unknown valuables.

### Synopsis

- The players are told by a Gerudo woman about an ancient partially submerged tower that's said to once belong to a great Magister, which may contain great treasure.
- When the tower is found, a metal hatch that's warded with a lightning spell is designed to keep out unsavory creatures, but their Gerudo guide knows the pass word.
- The first few floors are wet but mostly unflooded, and contain various trinkets and a few rampant Ropes. The Library contains a magical apparatus that creates water stairs down to the ground level, but it's flooded and the sudden rush of water may mean trouble for our heroes.
- The basement floor is Ifrandis's main Laboratory, where he still resides in his now almost fully elemental form. The party may decide to talk him down or fight him, but either way they'll obtain the treasure of this adventure, the Ether Medallion.

### Scene 1: The Tower of Ifrandis

>The Tower of Ifrandis is one of the few ruined buildings whose top still breaks the surface of the water on the northeast side of Pagos Woods. The tower itself is still mostly solid, if tilted, standing only about a story tall but with presumably several more levels down. The tower is not very large, but it is well protected.

Entrance to the tower is gained through the covered roof, a few feet above the water. The metal hatch going down into the building is magically warded and requires a pass word or counter-magic to open. If brute force is attempted, the hatch is warded (Glyph of Warding, DC 16 Dex save) with a Call Lightning spell (at a level equal to party's level, minimum 3rd), that can only be avoided by speaking the pass word. Once inside, the hatch will seal itself again if the pass word is spoken once more. If the party inquires of their guide, she will know the pass word is "dracozu".

#### V1. Top Floor

>The top floor was seemingly once a finely appointed set of personal chambers for the tower's owner. A bedroom, bathroom, closet, and small study are open and unlocked for perusal. The rooms are all in a clutter however and sopping wet with water seeping through the stones. Stairs past the study continue downward.

Few if any of the objects are recoverable for their actual value. The rooms are so jumbled and littered now that movement should be somewhat impaired and the tilt of the tower should make keeping ones' balance a challenge.

The stairs down pass by an open door to a small study, in which a few rather ill-tempered **Ropes** (CR 1/4) have taken up residence and will attack the party unawares if possible.

`encounter: 1d3: Rope`

#### V2. The Library

>This entire floor is dedicated to a scholarly collection of books. A very large selection of material is available here that ranges across a vast variety of topics and many of the texts are rare and hard to find. Unfortunately all of them are ruined from the moisture and seepage. In the middle of the room is a moderately sized dark green crystal ball that has been anchored above the floor by four silver chains that latch onto bronze brackets in the ceiling and secure to the orb via silver rings. Below this setup on the floor is a large mosaic made from tiled bits of topaz and opal.

The room itself does not have a visible path leading down. The tables, chairs, and bookcases that line the walls can all be searched or moved but no obvious means is available. The books in the closed room contain Ifrandis' diary, his spell books, rare and magical texts, and a few trinkets he favored. However it also contains the secret to proceeding, a scroll with the command word that activates the orb ("Zonai").

The crystal ball is a predefined focus for the spell on the scroll, and when the spell is cast upon the sphere it will turn the ten foot radius circle of tile underneath it into a spiral staircase of firm water down into the next floor. This is unfortunate however as the floor below is flooded.

#### V3. Main Level

The main floor of the tower was breached during its lonely years, and the front door to the building actually leads straight out into the bottom of a lake. The room is filled with water, and if the PCs have not resealed the entry hatch on the roof then once the magical stairs to the Library are opened the water raises very quickly, bubbling and churning up through the levels of the tower. Any creature without a swim speed or method of water breathing must:
* Succeed on an immediate DC 14 Strength (Athletics) check or be thrown against the wall by the flowing water, taking 3d6 bludgeoning damage. If any PCs fail by 10 or more, they become trapped between the wall and swirling water, are unable to move or escape without assistance, and must make a DC 10 Constitution Saving throw or gain 1 level of exhaustion.
* Spend one extra foot of movement for every foot moved while under water (movement halved).
* After each hour of swimming, must succeed on a DC 10 Constitution Saving throw or gain 1 level of exhaustion.

```ad-info
title: Swimming and Drowning
- A player can hold his/her breath for a number of minutes equal to 1+ their Constitution modifier (minimum of 30 seconds).
- A player can last the number of rounds equal to his/her Constitution modifier (minimum of 1) when they run out of oxygen before they drown.
- When a player begins to drown, their hit points fall to 0 at the start of their turn and they cannot receive the benefits of a healing spell or potion until they are able to breath again.
```

If the PCs manage to survive the tower filling with lake water, then what they find is a single large room dimly lit by light filtering in from outside. If the PCs can see clearly they will notice a large ten foot mosaic on the floor, made from tiled bits of topaz and opal. The mosaic starts darker at the outer edge and lightens as it comes to meet a single golden disk at the center of the mosaic, approximately one foot in diameter.

The water stairs from above touch down on this mosaic, and if the same pass word that is used for the hatch above is used here. If spoken, the mosaic will melt down into another set of stairs identical to the first set, which descends down into the basement Laboratory.

#### V4. Laboratory

Unlike the first set of stairs, this entire basement of the tower is protected by a warding spell to keep unassisted water that is inside in, and the water that is outside out. This means that the lake water on the floor above will not filter down into the lower level as long as the warding is active, or unless the PCs actively bring it into the warded area. This ward is what has kept the creature that was once Ifrandis trapped here for more than half a century. Ironically his own spells of protection have become his prison.

>This level of the tower is filled with tables, water tanks, aquariums, tubes, vials, vats, and other paraphernalia. The whole of which has been smashed and destroyed in various fits of rage over the years, visited upon by the creature that you presume was once Ifrandis, who is now standing across from you. He lingers, as if waiting for you to address him.

As he held the heart of the elder dragon in his hands Ifrandis had felt his blood turning to water, killing him. In an act of desperation, Ifrandis ate the still throbbing heart and completed his unique transformation. Later he would absorb the heart entirely, gaining an unbelievable control over the element he long had felt an affinity for. Now a creature of water, he desires to leave but cannot gain his own freedom.

Ifrandis will linger a moment when the PCs enter his chambers, watching in disbelief. If the PCs speak his dragon name ("Dracozu") or attempt to converse with him in Ancient or Draconic, then he will acquiesce. Otherwise he will attack the players.

`encounter: 1: Water Elemental`

### Conclusion

After he's defeated or talked down, Ifrandis will disappear into a burst of water and lightning, leaving behind the **Ether Medallion**.

### References
