---
Location: Mesa Lake
Location_General: Lanayru Region
Theme-Mechanic: Reflection and Deception
Recommended-Order: 2
Type: Dungeon
---

#adventure #dungeon 

A series of chambers under the lake where Vah Ruta stood, now known as Mesa Lake on Ruta Mesa, were built during the original Calamity in order to house and hide large portions of the Zora population. Magical water-based mirrors were used to protect the people hidden there.

```ad-info
title: Area Features
 - ***Ceilings***. The ceilings are made of Zoran stone and rise 15 ft. above the floor.
 - ***Floors and Walls.*** The floors and walls are made of neatly cut Zoran stone.
 - ***Doors.*** The few normal doors which exist are made of solid Zoran stone. They're all unlocked unless otherwise stated.
 - ***Lighting.*** The chambers are lit by luminous stone wall sconces. Their reflection in the many pools of water make the chambers unusually bright.
 - ***Unusual Features.*** Since the chambers were originally designed to house Zora for potentially long periods of time, each room serves a specific purpose such as living room, kitchen, etc.
```

### Scene 1: Gaining Access

Ruta Mesa is located between Zodobon Highlands and Ruto Mountain, south of Zora's Domain. The lake on this flat mountain is known as Mesa Lake, and it's where Vah Ruta stood during the Calamity. Debris fell into the lake during the Upheaval, and when it returned to the sky afterward, a whirlpool was created in its absence.

The players can access the caves underneath this lake by jumping into the whirlpool, which will require they adhere to swimming rules (holding their breath, having a swim speed, or using magic), and drops them safely into a pool of water in the Central Chamber (area R1).

```ad-info
title: Swimming
Players can hold their breath while underwater for 1+Con (minimum of 30 seconds) minutes, and can swim an average of 2 mph, rolling a Constitution saving throw (DC 10) for each hour spent swimming (with failure resulting in one level of exhaustion for the character).
```

### Scene 2: Inside the Dungeon

#### R1. Central Chamber

>As you land safely in a pool of water in a large central chamber under Mesa Lake, you discover nothing but a single tall mirror on one wall. The other walls appear to be completely smooth and unadorned, save for a single nail on each.

There is what appears to be a mirror on the wall (but it's actually composed of water). It can be removed from the wall, but cannot be removed from the dungeon or the water that composes it will flow out. The mirror appears to show a reflection of the room (complete with reflected characters), but if it is moved, it will be seen to be a magic portal into another room. The players will also discover a locked door behind the portal once it has been moved, which leads to area R5.

It can be placed on all three of the other walls in the room, and on each wall it opens into a different chamber. The mirror is the only way to reach these chambers. A character can step through the mirror, like quicksilver, but will find that the party's "evil twins" (looking just like the party members, but made completely of water) are in the room in the mirror -- and his/her "evil twin" exits just as he was entering. The evil twins will attack the party instantly (doing only cold damage, as water washes over them during the attack), but any attacks on a twin go right through the water and affect the real character instead.

Each of the three rooms has a piece of a key (which can be discovered by a DC 12 Investigation check), and when all parts are assembled, the previously revealed door leading to area R5 can be unlocked. If the character in the room discovers their key part and returns to the Central Chamber, their "evil twin" is removed from the chamber.

#### R2 (South). Living Room

#### R3 (East). Kitchen

#### R4 (West). Toilet

#### R5. Treasury

>You find yourself in a room that's sparsely adorned except for some mostly empty shelves. In the center of the room is a treasure chest with a mirror sitting next to it. There is a locked door on the opposite side of the room.

When the party opens the chest they're saddened to find it's empty. However, if the mirror is held next to the chest, it reflects a chest filled with loot (and more importantly, a key). The players must reach into the mirror and retrieve the treasure and key from within the mirror's chest.

#### R6. Miniboss Chamber

>You enter a room full of water and a single island in the middle with a dead looking tree. There is a closed door on the far side of the room.

`encounter: 1: Hero of Water`

As the players approach the tree or the door, a swordsman clad in blue appears to challenge them. Once he's defeated, a chest magically appears containing the treasure, but the door on the far side does not open.

Miniboss:: [[Hero of Water]]
Miniboss-Treasure:: [[Iron Boots]]

A DC 12 Investigation check can be done to discover that at the bottom of the water pool in front of the door is a floor switch. A player donning the Iron Boots will sink to the bottom, activating the switch, and opening the door.

#### R7. Library

The next room is a cluttered library with a large mirror on one wall. A door at the opposite end of the rom is sealed shut and three arcane runes hover above it. If anyone tries to open the sealed door, the runes explode and anyone inside the room must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw, taking 4d10 fire damage on a failure or half as much on a success.

If someone looks in the mirror, have them make a DC 16 Wisdom (Perception) check. If they succeed, they notice that three of the books on the wall opposite the mirror are missing. Removing these books causes the arcane runes on the door to disappear.

Once all three runes have disappeared or detonated, the door opens.

#### R8. The Waterfall

>You enter a room with a single waterfall emptying into a large pool, several empty pots, and a floor switch on an elevated ledge.

If the switch is inspected, it's discovered to be rusted, and can't be pressed just by standing on it. One option is to equip the **Iron Boots** and stand on it (after a successful DC 12 Strength check to climb up), or to fill a pot with water and hoist it on to the pedestal to weigh down the switch. Once the switch is hit, the waterfall starts pouring out more quickly and the water level raises until it reaches a higher ledge with a door.

#### R9. Boss Chamber

>You enter a room full of pristine reflective water, but the serenity doesn't last long as a large water creature emerges from the pool. You notice a strange purple energy flowing through it.

`encounter: 1: Malicious Water Weird`

When the boss is defeated, it leaves behind the treasure, as well as a blue medallion with six radial water drops on it. And the party levels up!

Boss:: [[Malicious Water Elemental]]
Boss-Treasure:: [[Moon Pearl]]
Reward:: [[Sage Medallion]] (Water)

### Conclusion

Once the items are collected, the water level in the room starts rising. The water raises the party up to a hole in the ceiling where they find themselves in the pool above.

### References
