#adventure 

### Background

It's a long and arduous passage along Ruto Mountain to Zora's Domain, but if the PCs pack some potion that protects from electric attacks and stay on the path, they'll be there soon.

Location:: Ruto Mountain Path
Location_General:: [[Lanayru Great Spring]], [[Zora's Domain]], [[Lanayru Region]]
Type:: Side

### Hook(s)



### Synopsis

- 

### Scene 1: Inogo Bridge

Lasli, the traveling Sheikah merchant is here. She can sell the party Electro Elixirs (100 rupees each) if needed. She can also warn the party of the monsters and mountains ahead.

### Scene 2: Zora River

There are falling boulders here, which the party will need to roll a DC 15 Acrobatics check to avoid.

### Scene 3: Tabahl Woods

1d8 **Electric Wizzrobes** have set up camp here.

`encounter: 1d8: Electric Wizzrobe`

### Scene 4: Bank of Wishes

1d8 **Electric Keese** hang from the rocky overcroppings that the players need to walk under.

`encounter: 1d8: Electric Keese`

### Scene 5: Oren Bridge

1d6 **Octoroks** attack the party as they cross the bridge. On the other side is a Zora Stone Monument (#1).

`encounter: 1d6: Octorok`

#### 1. Located directly on the path between Oren Bridge and Luto's Crossing

>**History of the Zora, Part One**
>***The Enteral Zora's Domain, As told by King Dorephan***
>The rains have blessed Lanayru since ancient times with an abundance of pure, clean water. Seeking a bounty of such water, the Zora gathered there. Thus, as the legends go, the domain was born 10,000 years ago. The land was also rich in ore, and so a unique form of stonemasonry was developed to create our new home. The domain is one giant sculpture, a feat of architecture that has drawn admirers from the world over. Our great domain will ever stand as a hallmark of the esteemed artists who made it, an eternal symbol of Zora pride.

### Scene 6: Luto's Crossing

There is a Zora Stone Monument (#2) before the bridge. 1d3 **Moblins** attack the party when they get on the bridge.

`encounter: 1d3: Moblin`

#### 2. Located on a ledge above the path north of Oren Bridge

>**History of the Zora, Part Two**
>***A Reservoir of Hope, As told by King Dorephan***
>Once every 10 years, the Lanayru region experiences unusually heavy rainfall. The Zora River flooded every time. The tides damaged not only our domain but our people, washing away poor souls and causing great suffering and disarray. The Zora king of that time, after seeking aide from the king of Hyrule, rode out to see what could be done. By joining the architectural genius of the Zora and Hyrule's technological prowess, East Reservoir Lake was swiftly built. Thanks to this fruitful partnership, Hyrule was no longer plagued by these devastating floods. In gratitude, the Zora king promised the king of Hyrule to manage the reservoir level to protect all of Hyrule from floods. each Zora king since has kept that oath, spanning 10,000 years. That is why the reservoir signifies our bond with Hyrule.

### Scene 7: Ruto Mountain and Lake

>You approach a mountain path composed of four switchbacks that each climb at least fifteen feet. Each segment of path seems to cover about one hundred feet. There are Wizzrobes at the top of the mountain hurling lightning down on to the mountain.

Have the players roll initiative to determine their marching order. Then add one **Lightning Wizzrobe** (CR 3) for each member of the party to initiative - they will be at the top of the mountain hurling lightning at the party on their turn. The goal is to scale the mountain using the four switchbacks (each 100 feet) or by rock climbing before being knocked unconscious by the Wizzrobes. On each player's turn, they can do one of several things:
 * Move along the path using their normal walking speed. This will leave them open to attack by the Wizzrobes, but they can use their action to attack at range.
 * Move along the path using a dash action to move double their walking speed. This will leave them open to attack by the Wizzrobes, but will get them up the mountain faster.
 * Use an action to attempt to climb the mountain. DC 15 Acrobatics or Athletics check, on success they move up to the next switchback (equivalent to 100' of progression).
 * Some other creative skill check to progress in another way.

### Conclusion

>You make your way through Ruto Mountain, cross the Great Zora Bridge, and come up on Zora's Domain, featuring a massive fish-shaped monument at its heart. Water bubbles up below and it runs through the village via beautifully crafted walkways and waterfalls. The settlement is a sight to behold, appearing to have been crafted from a single stone. The Domain's structure includes large quantities of Luminous Stone, which causes several portions of it to glow softly.

[[Zora's Domain]]

### Remaining Zora Stone Monuments

#### 3. Located on the west shore of Ruto Lake

>**History of the Zora, Part Three**
>***Miracle of the White Scale, As told by King Dorephan***
>Our scholars say that in the distant past, Zora's Domain had a king with no special talent for the art of war. What he lacked in skill with a blade, he made up for in love for his people, and especially love for his queen. One day, news reached the king of a horde of monsters gathering in the Zodobon Highlands. The king steeled himself for war to protect his people, but the queen knew how ill suited for the task he was. Worried for his life, she wove one of her own scales into his armor, hoping that her love would protect him in battle. It seemed for a time that the tide of battle favored the Zora and that all would make it safely home. But the cunning Lizalfos general saw an opening and seized it, driving the king's forces into a corner. Just when the general's sword was ready to crash down upon the king, a miracle took place. An errant sunbeam reflected from the scale on his armor blinded the Lizalfos, stopping the deathblow from falling. This was the chance the king needed to rally his forces and turn the tide, taking down the general and securing victory. This came to be known as the Miracle of the White Scale, a scale that only female Zora possess. It was this miracle that began the tradition of Zora princesses crafting armor for their future husbands.

#### 4. Located south of Luto's Crossing in the cliffs near the base of Ruto Mountain

>**History of the Zora, Part Four**
>***The Lightscale Trident, As told by King Dorephan***
>The queen and I were blessed with a daughter as lovely as a jewel. We named our princess... Mipha. To celebrate her birth, the smithy Dento presented Mipha with a gift: a mighty spear called the Lightscale Trident. Mipha grew into a bright girl and soon reached the age of receiving lessons from the royal family's order of knights. The whole of the royal guard adored her, especially Sergeant Seggin, who loved her as if she were his own kin. Under Seggin's instruction, Mipha honed her skill, and her radiance grew along with her skill with the Lightscale Trident. As a Champion, Mipha made her people proud. However, once the Great Calamity struck, she was never to return. All of Zora's Domain fell into misery. The merest thought of the princess was enough to overcome anyone with tears. As a way of offering her soul repose, they tried to send the Lightscale Trident drifting down the Zora River. But when they did, the trident began to glow, and Mipha's voice rang loud and clear for all Zora to hear:
>"The Lightscale Trident and I are one... Abandon your grief and know joy once again. Do not cry... just remember."
>And so, keeping to her request, on the day of the Great Calamity... the day that Mipha passed from this world... the Zora venerate the Lightscale Trident and remember their brave princess.
>Such is the origin of the Champion Festival.

#### 5. Located at the base of the cliff at the eastern end of the Zodobon Highlands
>**History of the Zora, Part Five**
>***The Sage Princess Ruto, As told by King Dorephan***
>Long, long ago... In a past more distant that even the Great Calamity or the creation of the Divine Beast Vah Ruta... There was a Zora princess named Ruto. We know that she was an attendant to the Zora patron deity and that she was a fair and lively girl, beloved to all. Around that same time, an evil man with designs on ruling the world appeared, bringing disaster upon Zora's Domain. It is said that Ruto then awoke as a sage, facing this foe alongside the princess of Hyrule and the hero of legend. Her achievements are remembered not only by the Zora, they are also forever etched into the history of Hyrule. The Divine Beast Vah Ruta, built ages later to face off against Calamity Ganon, was named in honor of Ruto. That the Zora princess— my sweet daughter Mipha— was chosen to pilot Ruta is surely the work of fate.

#### 6. Located below an overhang west of Rutala Dam
>**History of the Zora, Part Six**
>***Divine Beast Vah Ruta, As told by King Dorephan***
>When the Divine Beast Vah Ruta was first discovered at Zora's Domain, my daughter Mipha hurried to see it. Those present that day say they saw an unusual sparkle of excitement in Mipha's normally calm eyes as she beheld Ruta. The princess spoke of the Divine Best as she would a friend and was overjoyed when she was chosen to pilot Ruta. I thought nothing of it at the time, but given the events that followed, I now regret allowing this to happen. I have spent many long years consumed by guilt. My dearest wish is that her soul will know peace. I pray for it every day.

#### 7. Located just before reaching the bridges crossing Ruto Lake
>**History of the Zora, Part Seven**
>***The Hero Who Defeated the Lynel, As Told by King Dorephan***
>There was a time when the people of the land were threatened by the dread beast Lynel who lived on the Ploymus Mountain. But one Hyliann drove the beast back and restored piece to the domain.

#### 8. Located directly on the path when crossing Ruto Mountain
>**History of the Zora, Part 8**
>***King Dorephan Stands His Ground, As told by King Sidon***
>Around 100 years after the King Dorephan ascended to the throne, a stray Guardian crossed Upland Zorana into our domain. The Guardian seemed unstoppable. Our best soldiers' spears barely left a scratch on its metal hull. It was then that our King Dorephan, without a thought for his own safety, came out to face the Guardian himself. With supernatural strength, he lifted the Guardian and hurled it into a ravine. The impact of the fall left the Guardian in pieces, and it was never to trouble another Zora ever again. The citizens celebrated the king's valor. From then on, their trust and respect for him grew beyond compare. You can still see the scar he eared that day on his forehead—a token of his triumph.

#### 9. From the east exit of Zora's Domain, on the shortcut to Ploymus Mountain, swim up two waterfalls
>**History of Zora, Part 9**
>***Prince Sidon's Great Escape, As told by King Sidon***
>There was once a giant Octorok in Hateno Bay, large as a mountain, which terrorized the village's fishers. Hearing of their distress, Prince Sidon went forth to personally eliminate the offending Octorok. But this Octorok was a tricky beast. After the prince dodged one of the stones it spat, it inhaled him whole. Such had been the fate of many strong warriors who went to slay the Octorok. Not one had come back alive. Just as it seemed Prince Sidon would be counted among them, the giant Octorok twisted in pain. The tip of a silverscale spear pierced the Octorok's stomach from within, revealing itself as the source of the beast's agony. Incredibly, Prince Sidon had fought his way out by stabbing his spear over and over into the monster's stomach. Unable to bear the pain, the Octorok coughed up the prince and scrambled to escape. Ever since, the fishers of Hateno Bay have passed down this heroic tale: The Prince Who Slew the Fell Octorok

#### 10. Located approximately even with the little rock outlook on the east side of the Great Zora Bridge
>**Memoir of a Gifted Stonemason**
>The text is worn and no longer legible...

### References

