#adventure 

### Background

An old Forest Sage and his apprentice have been blessing the crops of the villagers of this small agricultural community every year. Using a precious stone, called the Heart of the Forest, the Sage helped plants grow strong within the valley. But this year, the Sage is nowhere to be found and the villagers ask for help.

In the forest on the wooded slope of the Sage's mountain, named the Shadow Pass, strange animals have been spotted. These wood animals have turned livid and blind after drinking from the chalky white water of the surrounding streams. They roam freely and attack any suspect source of noise. Anyone who touches the waters can suffer the same fate. Players will have to fight a few of them to go up the mountain or find a way to slip by unnoticed.

Location:: Shadow Pass
Location_General:: [[Akkala Region]], [[Akkala Highlands]]
Reward:: 
Type:: Side

### Hook(s)



### Synopsis

- 

### Scene 1: Beating Around the Bush

Further up the wooded slopes of the mountain, players face a huge dome formed by living thicket. The thicket climbs high in the air and forms a huge dome that continues up the mountain to a rock cliff a few thousand feet higher. The tops of old trees are seen pocking out of the dome as well as the spire of a ruined guard tower. Streams and small pools of chalky water exit at different spots around its walls.

The dome is 30 feet thick and cannot be crossed normally. Normal fire cannot harm the thicket and magical fire can burn through slowly. Hacking through the wall is possible with much effort, but vibration on or in the wall rapidly attracts thousands of tiny spiders that cover the victim and bite relentlessly. Prolonged shaking attracts all of the spiders in a 15 feet area, thus clearing the surrounding area. The spiders can only be removed using effect actions such as wind, fire, cold or immersion in water.

### Scene 2: Down Memory Lane

Inside the thicket dome, the forest is enveloped in humid darkness. Higher up the slope, the silhouette of the ruined guard tower can be seen. The entrance to the tower is a 100 feet tunnel that leads under it. Light can be seen shining at its end. The tower is completely empty, only rocks and moss can be found inside.

Within the tunnel lives a colony of Memory Moss (Obliviax). Any who enter 20 feet in the tunnel are attacked by the moss which tries to steal memories of the last 24 hours of any living being, starting with spell casters. Players who succumb to the attack are confused for a few hours. Only by eating the moss can characters regain their memories.

### Scene 3: The Druid’s Heart

Higher up the slope, near the rock wall, lies a huge tree near a big pool of chalky water. As players advance, they are met by a man wearing a muddied robe. He explains that he is the old druid’s son and apprentice and that his father has been killed by a huge plant monster. He begs the players to help him kill the monster to avenge his father.

Near the big tree sits a huge Shambling Mound monster. The monster attacks anyone on sight. The young druid attacks the monster but anytime he hits, the monster lets out an anguished cry. The monster also refrains from attacking the young druid.

If players kill the monster, its vegetable body withers away revealing the body of the old druid. A green glow can be seen inside his chest. The monster’s death also makes the thicket dome wither and the waters of the streams become pure again. A cavern leading inside the rock wall is revealed.

### Scene 4: Heritage

After the fight, the young druid approaches his father’s body and digs deep within its chest to pull out a green glowing gem, the Heart of the Forest. He then tries to escape inside the cavern.

If players stop him, he reveals how he feels he should have been ordained a druid by his father but was refused the honor. The apprentice tricked his father in showing the location of the gem in hope of stealing it, but the old druid saw the trap and swallowed the gem. The gem’s power transformed him into the monster and mutated the forest around. The young druid then prepared his revenge, setting the trap inside the tower and waiting for adventurers to help him kill his father.

### Conclusion

If the young druid manages to escape, the players are left with the task of figuring out what has happened and letting the villagers know of the old druid’s fate. Of course, following him down the dark cavern is always an option.

### References
