---
Location: Akkala Citadel
Location_General:: Akkala Region
Theme-Mechanic: Bombs and Boulders
Recommended-Order: 3
Type:: Dungeon
---

#adventure #dungeon 

The players will traverse the tunnels under the city, either to help the Soldiers' Guild or to look for treasure, unaware that a monster is held here. At some point, they inadvertently open the room where the monster is held and he's released into the city. The players must escape the tunnels, and kill the monster before it destroys the city.

If the players chatted with anyone in the Tavern, or helped the soldier at the Parade Grounds, and need more party members, then they can be met by any of those soldiers before entering the tunnels.

```ad-info
title: Area Features
 - ***Ceilings***. The ceilings are made of rock and rise 10 ft. above the floor.
 - ***Floors and Walls.*** The walls are made of rock, and the floors are dirt.
 - ***Doors.*** The few doors which exist are made of rock, or are gates made of metal.
 - ***Lighting.*** The tunnels are lit by wall lanterns hung every 40 feet. Each contains a torch which gives off bright light in a 20 ft radius and dim light in an additional 20 ft radius.
```

### Scene 1: The Tunnels

#### C1. Entry Chamber

>A large lit brazier dominates the center of this entryway. To the north, a large door is blocked off by a portcullis. On either side, unlit sconces sit cold and dusty.

The portcullis cannot be lifted by normal means. Once the two sconces next to it are lit, the portcullis retracts into the ceiling.

#### C2. Bomb Training

This room is filled with Baby Dodongos, and has three walls composed of piles of rocks. There are a few Bomb Flowers dotted around the room. The players will need to blow up the rocks in some way, either by using their own magic, one of the Bomb Flowers, or by killing the Baby Dodongos and using their Explosive Death trait to blow up the walls. The east wall opens up to C3, the west wall opens up to C4, and the north wall opens up to C5.

`encounter: 1d8: Baby Dodongo`

#### C3. Boulder Switch

Once the players enter this chamber, a gate descends over the exit out of the room. The only thing visible in the room is a large boulder sitting in the corner. If the players were to lift or move this boulder in some way, a switch underneath it is revealed and the gate blocking the exit opens up. Also in this room is a smattering of Pebblits and Keese.

`encounter: 1d6: Pebblit, 1d6: Keese`

#### C4. Rolling Boulders

Once the players enter this chamber, a gate descends over the exit out of the room. On the right side of the room, boulders roll from a hole in the ceiling on the far end down to a hole in the floor on the near end. A large rusted switch sits on the left side of the room, which can only be activated by something very heavy. The designed solution is to somehow move a boulder from the stream over to the switch, but there could be other solutions (such as the use of **Iron Boots** or magic). When the switch is activated, the door opens. A few Hardhat Beetles also wander this room, and they could be fought outright, blown up, or knocked into the hole in the floor.

`encounter: 1d4: Hardhat Beetle`

#### C5. Miniboss Chamber

>You enter a chamber that's larger than the previous tunnel, but not by much. In the middle of the room stands a swordsman in a brown tunic. He immediately lunges at you!

`encounter: 1: Hero of Earth`

A swordsman wearing a brown tunic appears to challenge the party, and the gates descend over the exits out of the room. Once he's defeated, a chest magically appears containing the treasure.

Miniboss:: [[Hero of Earth]]
Miniboss-Treasure:: [[Pegasus Boots]]

#### C6. Fragile Floors

The previous chamber opens into a longer tunnel, which appears totally empty, save for stairs on the far side. A successful DC 12 Perception check reveals cracks in the floor. If the players move forward in the tunnel, the floor gives way and they drop to the room below (right in the center). They can use the **Pegasus Boots** to speed across the room and not cause the floor to fall.

The fall is only about 20 feet, so the damage (2d6) could be handwaved if not negated in another way by the party.

#### C7. Ledge Chamber

The stairs descend into another chamber that has high ledges held up by pillars on both sides of the room. The pillars appear old and relatively fragile. If the players manage to destroy the pillars, either by bombing them or by running into them while wearing the **Pegasus Boots**, then the ledges collapse and drops the treasure chest that's sitting on top (but can't be seen). On the left side is a treasure chest containing a Silver rupee (100 rp), and on the right side is a treasure chest containing 5 Bomb Flowers. Rock Octoroks dot the room as well, and they could be coaxed into destroying the pillars with the rocks they shoot.

`encounter: 1d3: Octorok` (Rock)

#### C8. Antechamber

This room is just an empty chamber with a single rock wall on the far side. Bombing or otherwise destroying that wall leads to area C9, but this room also gives a place for the party to rest a bit prior to the boss.

#### C9. Boss Chamber

>As you enter the room, several torches ignite revealing a large snake-like monster about one hundred feet in the distance. The monster has a noticeable purple glow and starts charging toward you!

`encounter: 1: Malicious Moldorm`

The monster should move toward the exit of the tunnels at any opportunity (using its movement on every turn). It's trying to escape! The length of the tunnels is about 200 feet, and if the Moldorm is able to make it to the exit of the tunnels (5 turns), it will leave and begin attacking the city. Additional soldiers can join in, or point out the monster's weak point, if the party continues to have trouble.

When the boss is defeated, it disappears into a cloud of purple smoke and leaves behind the treasure, as well as a brown medallion with a magatama symbol on it. And the party levels up!

Boss:: [[Malicious Rock Moldorm]]
Boss-Treasure:: [[Digging Gloves]]
Reward:: [[Sage Medallion]] (Earth)

### Conclusion


### References
