#adventure #dungeon [[Akkala Region]]

The players will traverse the tunnels under the city, either to help the Soldiers' Guild or to look for treasure, unaware that a monster is held here. At some point, they inadvertently open the room where the monster is held and he's released into the city. The players must escape the tunnels, and kill the monster before it destroys the city.

If the players chatted with anyone in the Tavern, or helped the soldier at the Parade Grounds, and need more party members then they can be met by any of those soldiers before entering the tunnels.

```ad-info
title: Area Features
 - ***Ceilings***. The ceilings are made of rock and rise 10 ft. above the floor.
 - ***Floors and Walls.*** The walls are made of rock, and the floors are dirt.
 - ***Doors.*** The few doors which exist are made of wood. The colored doors are magical and not able to be damaged.
 - ***Lighting.*** The tunnels are lit by wall lanterns hung every 40 feet. Each contains a torch which gives off bright light in a 20 ft radius and dim light in an additional 20 ft radius.
```

### Scene 1: The Tunnels

#### C1. Entry Chamber

>A large lit brazier dominates the center of this entryway. To the north, a large door is blocked off by a portcullis. On either side, unlit sconces sit cold and dusty.

The portcullises cannot be lifted by normal means. Once someone lights the two sconces next to one, it retracts into the ceiling.

#### C2. Hallway Split

>After walking for some time down a long corridor, you come to a split in the path. To the right, you can see a colored door in the distance. To the left, you think you hear the screeches of Keese and skittering of Rats.

The colored door leads to area C3 (the Puzzle Wing) while the path to the left leads to area C4 (the Battle Wing).

#### C3. The Puzzle Wing (Right)

>You arrive at a door, which has no doorknob, lock or other visible method of opening. What it does have is a plaque with an inscription on it:
>"I'm your shade of sadness, the degrading fragments of gladness. I am of the sky above, I am the richness of the abyss below. If nothing else, this is true, my one true color is..."

The moment a player speaks the word "Blue" out loud, the door unlocks and opens. 

>You continue down the hallway for a while longer and come across another door. This one looks similar, but with a different inscription:
>"Like a coward you bellow. You untrustworthy fellow. You've shown your true color..."

The moment a player speaks the word "Yellow" out loud, the door unlocks and opens. 

>You continue past the yellow door for several hundred feet until you encounter a third door. This looks similar to the others but with a new inscription:
>"I am the fiend, I am serene. The hue of greed, the disease of need. Toward desire I lean, I am..."

The moment a player speaks the word "Green" out loud, the door unlocks and opens. 

>Some ways further down the tunnel you encounter yet another door. This one has an inscription that reads:
>"Blood and undead, turning the tide instead, my vibrancy lies in..."

The moment a player speaks the word "Red" out loud, the door unlocks and opens. 

>You continue deeper into to tunnels and find another door. This inscription reads:
>"Nothing rhymes with me..." 

The moment a player speaks the word "Orange" out loud, the door unlocks and opens. The players can see to the chamber ahead, area C5 (The Miniboss Chamber).

#### C4. The Battle Wing (Left)

Create up to five encounter rooms (to match the number in the right wing) using at least 1d12 (more if you'd like) and the random encounter tables below:

| d12 | Encounter                         |
|:---:|:--------------------------------- |
| 2-3 | `encounter: 1d8: Keese`           |
| 4-5 | `encounter: 1d6: Fire Keese`      |
| 6-7 | `encounter: 1d6: Lightning Keese` |
| 8-9 | `encounter: 1d8: Giant Rat`       |
| 10  | `encounter: 1d8: ChuChu`          |
| 11  | `encounter: 1d6: Stone Pebblit`  |
| 12  | `encounter: 1d6: Bubble`         |

#### C5. Miniboss Chamber

>You enter a chamber that's larger than the previous tunnel, but not by much. In the middle of the room stands a warrior in a brown tunic. He immediately lunges at you!

Miniboss: **Hero of Earth**

`encounter: 1: Hero of Earth`

Once the Hero is defeated, a treasure chest magically appears containing the **Pegasus Boots**.

#### C6. The Carnival Pit

>There is another narrow tunnel ahead of you, with most of the floor missing. A single-point horizontal ladder spans the pit to another door on the other side of the room.

A ladder attached at a single point on both ends is basically a tightrope, but without the ability to easily control your center of gravity. It can be crossed by maintaining at least three point of contact at all times, but otherwise the ladder is likely to flip and drop the person on it. Players explaining the physics behind this and describing how the player would cross necessitates a Dexterity check of 10 (easy), otherwise it's a Dexterity check of 20 (hard). A failed ability check causes the player to fall to the room below, taking fall damage for a 50 foot fall (5d6).

This can cause the boss to appear earlier for the party members who fall if you'd like.

#### C7. Above the Boss

The previous series of tunnels opens into a large chamber, which appears totally empty, save for stairs on the far side. A successful DC 12 Perception check reveals cracks in the floor. If the players step into the center of the room, the floor gives way and they drop to the room below. They can use the **Pegasus Boots** to speed across the room and not cause the floor to fall.

The fall is only about 20 feet, so the damage (2d6) could be handwaved if not negated in another way by the party.

#### C8. Boss Chamber

>As you enter the room, several torches ignite revealing a large snake-like monster about one hundred feet in the distance. The monster has a noticeable purple glow and starts charging toward you.

The monster is a **Malicious Moldorm** which should move toward the exit of the tunnels at any opportunity (using its movement on every turn). It's trying to escape!

`encounter: 1: Malicious Moldorm`

The length of the tunnels is about 200 feet, and if the Moldorm is able to make it to the exit of the tunnels (5 turns), it will leave and begin attacking the city. Additional soldiers can join in, or point out the monster's weak point, if the party continues to have trouble.
