#adventure [[Mija]]

### Background

The Great Fairy of Wisdom can be found in small patch of woods east of Tarrey Town. The Great Fairy's flower hasn't been open in recent memory, and there's a rumor that a piece of the fairy's power can be found nearby (which may open the flower up). Anyone giving the hook may recommend the party start their search for the Fairy Fragment in the East Akkala Plains north of Tarrey Town.

Location:: [[Tarrey Town]], East Akkala Plains
Location_General:: [[Akkala Region]], [[Akkala Highlands]]
Reward:: [[Fairy Fragment (Cyan)]]
Type:: Main

### Hook(s)

The players can either happen upon her flower, where the Great Fairy can be heard through the flower, or a random NPC in Akkala can mention her (Akkala Rumors table).

### Synopsis

- There are four fairy fountains around Hyrule, each of which can grant benefits to certain classes of players. Mija can improve a Researcher or Sage.
- Each of them requires a small fetch quest prior to opening their flower bud up, which usually consists of an overworld miniboss fight. Mija's Cyan Fairy Fragment is being held by a Stalnox at East Akkala Plains.

### Scene 1: The Fairy Fragment

If the party arrives at East Akkala Plains at night, they find a sleeping **Stalnox** (CR 5), otherwise there is only a large pile of bones that indicate a large Stalnox should be here. They can get in a surprise round if they don't wake the Stalnox on approach. When the Stalnox drops, a Cyan Fairy Fragment is found left behind.

`encounter: 1: Stalnox`

### Scene 2: The Fairy Fountain

At the Fairy Fountain outside of Tarrey Town, the party will need to present the Cyan Fairy Fragment for the flower to open. Mija then explains that she is the Great Fairy of Wisdom, and can give a unique gift to a single Researcher or Sage.

 - **Researcher:** Gain an extra Spell (3rd level or less, available to the class), which can be cast from the relic once per long rest.
 - **Sage:** Gain an extra Spell (3rd level or less, available to the class), which can be cast from the relic once per long rest.

The fairy will enchant the relic, and as long as a player character carries it (requires attunement) they get the specific benefit.

### References

