#adventure 

### Background

The PCs have just returned from adventuring and will be looking for some downtime. They may be bragging about their newly acquired magic items or wealth. The locals have grown tired of countless adventurers coming through here and have decided to take out their anger on the next group to come through, by secretly poisoning their food and drink. If the party succeeds in enough skills (2d6 successes) they will uncover the plot, and can choose what to do next - combat, interrogation, or other. If they fail, then they succumb to poison and will be robbed by the NPCs.

Location:: [[East Akkala Stable]]
Location_General:: [[Deep Akkala]], [[Akkala Region]]
Type:: Side

### Hook(s)


### Synopsis

- 

### Scene 1

After the first ("free") round, ask for a Constitution check from each player before every action. DC is 10 plus the number of rounds (so DC 12 for the first check). If a player fails this check, they fall unconscious.
- Investigation (DC 10): You notice several NPCs are acting strangely. Or, you may notice that one of your party members appears more groggy.
- Perception (DC 10): You catch the NPCs in the act of poisoning your food.
- Intimidation (DC 10): You force an NPC to reveal what is occurring.

Any of these below can be done after the plot is discovered using a skill above:
- Persuasion (DC 15): If a PC realizes what’s happening he can attempt to talk the locals out of their course of action.
- Medicine (DC 15): If a PC realizes what’s happening he can attempt to slow the effects of the poison.
- Nature (DC 15): You are carrying or find some herbs that will counteract the effects of the poison the locals are using.

### Conclusion



### References