#adventure 

### Background

A training gauntlet can be accessed from within the tower of Akkala Citadel if the players choose. It's composed of multiple floors, each of which houses a different type of enemy, and a puzzle that locks the door to the next floor.

Location:: Akkala Citadel Town
Location_General:: [[Akkala Region]], [[Akkala Highlands]]
Reward:: 
Type:: Side

### Hook(s)


### Synopsis

- 

### Floor 1: Blue

This floor consists of random blue-level enemies. On a plaque next to the door is an inscription:

>"I'm your shade of sadness, the degrading fragments of gladness. I am of the sky above, I am the richness of the abyss below. If nothing else, this is true, my one true color is..."

The moment a player speaks the word "Blue" out loud, the door unlocks and opens.

### Floor 2: Yellow

This floor consists of random enemies. On a plaque next to the door is an inscription:

>"Like a coward you bellow. You untrustworthy fellow. You've shown your true color..."

The moment a player speaks the word "Yellow" out loud, the door unlocks and opens. 

### Floor 3: Green

This floor consists of random enemies. On a plaque next to the door is an inscription:

>"I am the fiend, I am serene. The hue of greed, the disease of need. Toward desire I lean, I am..."

The moment a player speaks the word "Green" out loud, the door unlocks and opens. 

### Floor 4: Red

This floor consists of random enemies. On a plaque next to the door is an inscription:

>"Blood and undead, turning the tide instead, my vibrancy lies in..."

The moment a player speaks the word "Red" out loud, the door unlocks and opens. 

### Floor 5: Orange

This floor consists of random enemies. On a plaque next to the door is an inscription:

>"Nothing rhymes with me..." 

The moment a player speaks the word "Orange" out loud, the door unlocks and opens. This door leads further up and out to the top of the Citadel.

### Conclusion



### References
