---
Location: Abandoned North Mine
Location_General: Death Mountain, Eldin Region
Theme-Mechanic: Fire and Forge
Recommended-Order: 4
Type: Dungeon
---

#adventure #dungeon 

The Abandoned Mine is a disused quarry to the northwest of Goron City in Death Mountain. The Mine is situated within Darunia Lake, consisting of a shore and several small islands scattered across the lake. The Mine was once used by the Gorons to mine for gems, but was abandoned when it grew too hot due to Divine Beast Vah Rudania's rampage during the Calamity. Since then, more lava and monsters have appeared.

Recently the Gorons have wanted to start moving back into the mine, but preliminary reports have indicated strange things going on inside. And in order to get deeper into the mine, the players will need to forge a key out of pieces found throughout the dungeon.

```ad-info
title: Area Features
 - ***Ceilings***. The ceilings are made of rock and generally rise 20 feet above the floor, but vary considerably.
 - ***Floors and Walls.*** The walls are made of rock, and the floors are rock and dirt.
 - ***Doors.*** The few doors which exist are made of rock.
 - ***Lighting.*** The tunnels are lit by wall lanterns hung every 40 feet. Each contains a torch which gives off bright light in a 20 ft radius and dim light in an additional 20 ft radius.
```

### Scene 1: The Mines

#### A1. The Forge

The first thing seen when entering the mine is a large natural forge in the center of an expansive chamber. The forge is formed by the caves walls and filled with lava. Exits from this chamber fan out to the north (area A2), east (area A3), and west (area A4). A path descends under the forge, where a locked door can be found that leads further into the mine (area A5). The key to the door needs to be forged from the three pieces that can be found in the three surrounding chambers.

#### A2. Key Piece 1 (North) - Anvil Gauntlet

The players enter a narrow room with a row of large anvils suspended from the ceiling. The anvils swing back and forth, and the players must time their movements to avoid being struck. They must make three subsequent DC 12 Dexterity saving throws to dodge the anvils, taking 3d6 bludgeoning damage on a failed save. At the end of the room is a chest containing a key fragment.

#### A3. Key Piece 2 (East) - Flame Trap Corridor

The players enter a long corridor with hidden pressure plates that trigger jets of flames from the walls. Any player stepping on a pressure plate must make a DC 12 Dexterity saving throw to dodge the flames, or take 1d10 fire damage. The players can use a DC 12 Perception check to spot the pressure plates or a DC 15 Investigation checks to disable them. There are two different sets of pressure plates that must be navigated, and they span the width of the room - both would be seen with the Perception check but need to be disabled separately. Jumping across the plates requires a DC 12 Athletics or Acrobatics check. At the end of the room is a chest containing a key fragment.

#### A4. Key Piece 3 (West) - Burning Glyphs

The players come across a chamber with glowing glyphs on the floor that emit waves of intense heat, with some more intense than others. There are several metal boxes scattered about. They need to decipher the correct sequence of glyphs to press, with the sequence being in increasing heat intensity. Players can make a DC 15 Intelligence (Investigation) check to determine the correct pattern, or may passively notice that some of the glyphs appear to glow hotter than others. Any glyphs depressed in the wrong sequence result in 1d10 fire damage.

#### A5. Miniboss Chamber

`encounter: 1: Hero of Fire`

A swordsman wearing a red tunic appears to challenge the party, and the door out of the room slams shut. Once he's defeated, a chest magically appears which contains a treasure.

Miniboss:: [[Hero of Fire]]
Miniboss-Treasure:: [[Power Gloves]] (Silver Gauntlets)

#### A6. Flame Shielding

The players face a chamber with streams of intense heat emitting from the walls. There are a number of larger metal crates dotted around the room. By utilizing the **Silver Gauntlets**, a player can lift and position the metal crates to create temporary barriers, protecting themselves from the flames.

#### A7. Riddles of Flame

Upon entering the next hallway, each member of the party is sequentially (or simultaneously, but with different circles) encircled by a *wall of flame* (as per the spell) 13 foot in radius – creating a small area in the center where the victim won’t take damage. A magic mouth appears on the floor in front of the victim and asks a riddle.

If the riddle is answered correctly the wall of flames disappears. If the answer is wrong, the wall of flames begins shrinking toward the center – after one round the victim starts taking 1d10 damage per round (incorrectly answered question).

- I can grow, but am not alive. I have no lungs, but need air to survive. What am I?
	- Answer: Fire
- I am free, but I am priceless. You cannot own me, but you can use me. You cannot keep me, but you can spend me. Once you've lost me, you can never reclaim me. What am I?
	- Answer: Time
- You need simply speak my name, and I will be no more. What am I?
	- Answer: Silence
- Feed me and I will live, give me a drink and I will die.
	- Answer: Fire
- What has towns without houses, forests without trees, mountains without boulders and waterless seas.
	- Answer: A Map
- You keep it, but it never ages. Once shared it is gone forever.
	- Answer: A Secret
- It wears a leather coat to keep its skin in working order. Escorts you to other realms, without a magic portal.
	- Answer: Book

#### A8. Forge Bellows

The players enter a smaller secondary forge room with a dormant furnace above a shuttered door. Chains hang from the ceiling, attached to a gigantic bellows. A player can use the **Silver Gauntlets** to pull the chain, which operates the bellows, supplying air and reviving the flames. The revived furnace opens the door, and the same furnace can be seen on the other side of the door in the next room, where the boss emanates from.

#### A9. Boss Chamber

>As you enter the room, you see the furnace you just revived roar to life with gigantic strong flames. As they start to die back down, you see a huge fire creature step out of the furnace, glowing with both heat and purple energy.

`encounter: 1: Malicious Emberhulk`

When the boss is defeated, it disappears into a puff of purple smoke and leaves behind the treasure, as well as a red medallion with a flame symbol on it. And the party levels up!

Boss:: [[Malicious Emberhulk]]
Boss-Treasure:: [[Din's Fire]]
Reward:: [[Sage Medallion]] (Fire)

### Conclusion

There is an upside-down mine cart in the boss chamber, that can be picked up and flipped over with the Power Gloves and be used to return to the start of the dungeon.

### References
