#adventure #dungeon [[Death Mountain]]

The Abandoned Mine is a disused quarry to the northwest of Goron City in Eldin Canyon.

```ad-info
title: Area Features
 - ***Ceilings***. The ceilings are made of rock and generally rise 30 ft. above the floor, but vary considerably.
 - ***Floors and Walls.*** The walls are made of rock, and the floors are rock and dirt.
 - ***Doors.*** The few doors which exist are made of rock.
 - ***Lighting.*** The tunnels are lit by wall lanterns hung every 40 feet. Each contains a torch which gives off bright light in a 20 ft radius and dim light in an additional 20 ft radius.
```

### Scene 1: The Mines

#### A1. The Obelisk

>When you enter the mine, you immediately see why it is probably adandoned - a large black obelisk in the center of the room with dozens of pieces of metal clinging to it. The obelisk is over 50 feet away, but you can already start to feel a slight pull on any metal you have.

The obelisk is the center of a strong magnetic field. As one approaches the obelisk they feel the magnetic pull growing stronger. First unattended objects are slung towards the obelisk, then weapons are torn from your grasp, and finally large pieces of metal like armor are pulled towards the obelisk.

Within 50' of the Obelisk, small metal objects like coins, necklaces, buckles, etc are flung towards the Obelisk. Unattended objects receive no save. If an object is attended then the user can make a Strength check to retain possession each round.

Within 25' of the Obelisk, all metal objects weighing under 10 lbs are pulled toward the structure. A Strength check at -2 is needed to retain possession each round.

Within 10' the pull becomes the strongest. Any metal object under 50 lbs is pulled toward it. All Strength checks to maintain possession are done at a -6. Adventurers wearing metal armor might be flung onto the obelisk while still in their armor.

Removing an object or yourself from the Obelisk requires a strength roll at -8.

#### A2. Riddles of Flame

Upon entering the next hallway, each member of the party is sequentially (or simultaneousy, but with different circles) encircled by a wall of flame (as per the spell) 13' in radius – creating a small area in the center where the victim won’t take damage. A magic mouth appears on the floor in front of the victim and asks a riddle.

If the riddle is answered correctly the wall of flames disappears. If the answer is wrong, the wall of flames begins shrinking toward the center – after one round the victim starts taking damage.

- I can grow, but am not alive. I have no lungs, but need air to survive. What am I?
 - Answer: Fire
- I am free, but I am priceless. You cannot own me, but you can use me. You cannot keep me, but you can spend me. Once you've lost me, you can never reclaim me. What am I?
 - Answer: Time
- You need simply speak my name, and I will be no more. What am I?
 - Answer: Silence
- Feed me and I will live, give me a drink and I will die.
 - Answer: Fire
- What has towns without houses, forests without trees, mountains without boulders and waterless seas.
 - Answer: A Map
- You keep it, but it never ages. Once shared it is gone forever.
 - Answer: A Secret
- It wears a leather coat to keep its skin in working order. Escorts you to other realms, without a magic portal.
 - Answer: Book

#### A3. Miniboss Chamber

`encounter: 1: Hero of Fire`

Once the **Hero of Fire** is defeated, a chest magically appears which contains the **Cane of Pacci**.

#### A4. Pots Chamber

There are a number of pots scattered around the room and a locked door on the far wall.

#### A5. ???


#### A6. Boss Chamber

`encounter: 1: Malicious Emberhulk`

### Conclusion

There is an upside-down mine cart in the boss chamber, that when flipped with the Cane of Pacci can be used to the return to the start of the dungeon.
