#adventure 

### Background

At the foot of Gut Check Rock, in a place called Eldin's Flank, is a temple newly built to the great flame dragon Dinraal. This is where he used to be spotted most, but has not been seen for decades.

Location:: [[Death Mountain]]
Location_General:: [[Eldin Region]]
Reward:: [[Bombos Medallion]]
Type:: Side

### Hook(s)


### Synopsis

- 

### Scene 1: Courtyard

>The face of the temple juts out from the side of a volcanic mountain. It is built of a bright white stone that can reflect sunlight almost strongly enough to blind onlookers. Reddish-orange geometric designs that evoke flames wrap around the building and line the open doorway. A line of Corinthian columns stands out in front of the building wall itself, made of the same white stone and with the same designs wrapped around them.

In front of the doorway stand four guards with spears, each of which is impressed with a red jewel. Unless the PCs have taken great pains to disguise themselves as locals (being Goron or wearing Flamebreaker armor, for example), the guards will not allow them into the temple.

#### Scene 2: Outer Chapel

>This room is uninhabited at the moment. Unlike the exterior of the temple, it is carved straight from the mountainside, and the stone walls have a sandy color to them. An altar stands in the center near the back wall, with an unlit brazier in the middle of it. The only source of light is the large doorway.

The main thing for the PCs to notice here is that the entire back wall is a bas-relief depiction of the Dragon Dinraal himself. Closer inspection reveals that a door has been cut into the stone, although there is no obvious way to open it. Right over the doorway are the words "My fire shall be your guiding light."

The only way to open the door from this side is to hold to it a torch, candle, or other flaming object lit from the brazier on the altar. How the brazier is lit does not matter, as long as that becomes the source for the next flame. When the flame touches the door, it opens on its own, and stays open until someone closes it (a handle on the inside makes this task a little easier).

#### Scene 3: Trapped Corridor

>You are winding your way deeper inside the mountain. The corridor here is about 10 feet wide, with roughly carved walls and floors. Plain stone pillars stand in the center every so often, keeping the ceiling up. There are dragon statues along the walls holding torches in their open mouths.

About halfway in, it starts to smell of sulphur. If the trap is not found first, someone (choose randomly) will step on a section of floor which triggers it. When the trap is triggered the entrances to the area are sealed and flammable oil begins pouring out of the mouths of the statues, ignited by the torches.

The party can climb on to the columns or statues with a good Acrobatics or Athletics check. A DC 15 Investigation check will reveal the lever located in the middle of the ceiling that deactivates the trap.

#### Scene 4: Inner Sanctum

The priest is in here, kneeling in front of a stream of magma that flows through the chamber. Although he is not right at the edge, he is closer than it seems anyone should be able to get to anything that hot. This is because he's actually not human, but a **Flare Dancer**. Six acolytes stand around him, several feet back. The acolytes are armed with short spears, although they are not particularly good fighters, and won't join the flay unless necessary.

`encounter: 1: Flare Dancer, 6: Acolyte`

#### Scene 5: Treasure Chamber

Across the river of magma (15 feet wide) stand three heat-resistant ceramic urns, filled with gold, gems, and anything else the PCs may have been seeking. There are no other exits from the room, so if they want the treasure, they'll have to figure out a way to get it across the river.

The most important treasure in this haul is the **Bombos Medallion**.

### Conclusion



### References
