#adventure 

### Background

The Lost Woods run from Saria Pond to Mido Swamp. At the end, the players will find an evil tree known as the Baga Tree, who will drop the Jade Relic if defeated.

Location:: [[Great Hyrule Forest]]
Location_General:: [[Eldin Region]]
Reward:: [[Jade Relic]]
Type:: Main

### Hook(s)


### Synopsis

* 

### Scene 1: Saria Pond

As the players approach Saria Pond, west of the Witch's Hut, they see several Koroks standing there. If spoken to, the Koroks will encourage the party to turn back, as the Great Hyrule Forest (also known as the Lost Woods by some) is both dangerous and sacred to the people of the forest. Disturbing anything inside would not be a good idea.

### Scene 2: Lost Woods Entrance

>As you continue past Saria Pond and deeper into the forest, you turn a corner and see an animated plant with a bush on its head. You can hear even from this distance that he's humming a tune. Past him, the forest gets darker and a mist appears to be moving in.

If the players decide against listening to the Koroks, they continue past Saria Pond further in to the woods. A Deku Scrub at the mouth of a darker, mist covered area of the forest will give the players the route through the Lost Woods if they play him some music. The Scrub (whose name is Depni) gives the directions as north, west, south, then east. (FYI: this is a lie and the actual route ends with going west instead of east).

### Scene 3: Lost Woods

The Lost Woods proper start after going north past the Deku Scrub (so that's not the north referenced in the first direction). Each time they go a direction, describe a dense, dark, and misty forest with four exits in each cardinal direction. After the players go north, then west, then south, move on to the next room.

If the players go an incorrect direction, then they end up back at Scene 2. If the players somehow don't get the route from the Deku at the start, the Sheikah Slate could be used as a hint system - have it vibrate when near the right direction, calling for a DC 14 Survival check to determine what route it's pointing out.

Alternatively, a wrong direction could drop the players into any randomly rolled forest area in the world.
[Add table for random forests]

### Scene 4: End of the Route

Another Deku Scrub is found in this room, and his name is Debsi. He tells the party that the first Deku Scrub, Depni, was lying about the route. He says that those who wander and become lost in the forest turn into Deku Scrubs, and Depni wasn't even one until recently and doesn't know what he's talking about. The party has to decide whether to listen to the first Scrub or this new one, who tells them to go a different direction for the last part.

The real route will be the same as the original Zelda game: north, then west, then south, then west again. So if they go west here, they'll move on to Scene 5. If they go east, as Depni said, they'll end up back at Scene 2.

### Scene 5: Baga Tree

At the end of the Lost Woods (Mido Swamp), the players will fight the **Baga Tree** (CR 4),  an evil opponent of the Deku Tree that is possessed by a bug and is eager to kill the players as an act of vengeance on the Deku Tree for "ignoring the rules of the Forest" and allowing them into "his Lost Woods".

`encounter: 1: Baga Tree`

When defeated, the Baga Tree drops the **Jade Relic** and random rupees.

### Conclusion

After the Baga Tree is defeated, the Deku Scrubs here will become much more friendly to the party, even agreeing to trade with them. The Scrubs will make any fair trade and have access to any item the players may want.

### References
