#adventure [[Great Hyrule Forest]]

### Background

Molasses the Witch, who introduces herself as and goes by Moli, lives a mile or so east of Korok Village. Ideally the PCs are venturing there in a hurry, near the end of the day. Perhaps someone has fallen ill or been injured, or there has been an emergency in town that she can assist with.

Location:: [[Great Hyrule Forest]]
Location_General:: [[Eldin Region]]
Reward:: [[Maple's Ring]]
Type:: Side

### Hook(s)


### Synopsis

* 

### Scene 1: Entrance

>As you take the path off the main road toward the Witch's Hut, you begin noticing small traces of spider web intersperced with the surrounding greenery. As you continue though, the webs grow thicker until they eventually stretch across the path.

The players are forced to either enter the webs, find a way around the webs, or turn back. A number of **Big Skultullas** (CR 1) equal to the number of party members dwell inside the webs, and will attack if its webs are disturbed. This shouldn't be a deadly challenge, but more of an introduction to the area and the monster.

### Scene 2: Inside the Webs

If the players search the area, they find three bundles hanging from a high tree limb. A successful Investigation or Nature check (DC 12) indicates that these are recent victims of the Skulltulas, and at least one is still alive. The players may choose to find a way to lower each bundle to the ground and open it to rescue the victims. One is dead, one is unconscious but stable, and one is fully conscious. The conscious one is a male Hylian commoner named Mikel who was on his way to visit the Witch. The Hylian has no treasure, but the unconscious traveler has a belt pouch with enough money for the players to live on for a week or more.

### Scene 3: The Footbridge

>You travel on, struggling through the webs. Eventually, you reach a final turn in the path and see the Witch's Hut in the distance, on the other side of a stream. Unforunately, you immediately notice that the fast-flowing but narrow stream has washed out the footbridge that used to be here.

The players need to come up with a way to cross the bridge, including but not limited to:
 - A running long jump, requiring a successful DC 15 Athlethics check.
 - A dangerous climb through trees that hang over the stream, requiring a successful DC 15 Acrobatics check. Roll a d6, and on a 1 the player(s) attempting this encounter a Skulltula in the trees.
 - Attempt to hike downstream to discover an accessible crossing, requiring a successful DC 15 Survival check to not get lost. If lost, the player travels in a random direction (roll a d8 to determine a cardinal direction) for an hour, and may retry the Survival check at the end of each hour.

### Scene 4: Outside the Hut

>You reach the cottage at last, and make a horrific discovery – the whole hut is wrapped in webs, and what could be hundreds of tiny Skulltulas are crawling all over it. A dim light can be seen peeping through one window and there's a thin stream of smoke emanating from the chimney, suggesting the witch may still be inside.

One enormous **Gold Skulltula** (CR 3), which can be discovered with a successful DC 12 Perception check, appears to be the "mother" and has taken up residence on the roof of the cottage. The Giant Skulltula should warn them off, and not attack unless the PCs attempt to enter the hut anyway. If the Giant Skulltula does attack, you can make it a much more difficult challenge by including as many of the **Skulltulas** (CR 1/8) as you'd like (roll for all of them together for initiative and attacks).

### Scene 5: Inside the Hut

>You successfully enter the Witch's Hut and discover to your dismay that a withered corpse lies on the floor.

On a successful DC 10 Perception check, the PCs hear a whispering noise from the loft above. If they look up, they see an enormous old female half-**Gold Skulltula** (CR 3). Clinging to her are handfuls of the babies she has just hatched.

This creature is furious with anyone who has killed her babies. If the PCs killed the Gold Skulltula on the roof, she will not negotiate, but will instead attack with all her powers. But if the PCs were able to somehow communicate with the spider outside and it let them in willingly, she will be reasonable and not attack.

After the situation is under control, Moli the Witch will emerge from another room that had been barricaded. She will explain that half-Skulltula is/was her mother, Syrup. Moli had discovered the attack too late to save her, and had barricaded herself in her room to try and create a potion to reverse the effects. If the players saved Syrup rather than kill her, Moli can give her the potion and turn her back into a full human. Either way, Moli continues to run the potion shop and can offer the players a number of different potions and poisons (see Adventuring Gear under Equipment in the Adventurers' Guide to Hyrule).

Moli will reward the party with a relic from her ancestor - **Maple's Ring**.

### Conclusion

She can also tell the party about the rare and valuable plants that can be found in the Great Hyrule Forest to the north. Anything they find that can be used for potion ingredients, she would pay handsomely for. They can access the forest easily by continuing west past her hut to Saria Pond.

### References
