#adventure 

### Background

>The stable is crowded this evening, as the evening meal has brought many hungry patrons. A young woman called Blaizette, obviously one of Freona’s daughters, wears a blue kerchief and acts as your server for the meal. She manages to keep a smile despite the busy night.
>After she brings your meals and heads off to another table, a half-bush creature pulls up a chair and smiles a wooden smile at you. “Just act normal,” he says through clenched teeth, “but listen closely. Everyone’s life might be in danger. My name is Bushrell Caah. I represent the Deku Protectorate, a group that watches over the happenings in Hyrule and beyond. I was just told by an associate that a potentially devastating magical object was brought into the stable. We don’t know what it looks like or who has it, but I need your help in finding it. Could you split up and talk to anyone who looks suspicious, and find out if they are in possession of a powerful item? Do not let anyone know what you are doing, for the possessor of the item might set it off if he or she knows we are aware.”

This mini-adventure contains little combat, and possibly none at all. The characters must get to the bottom of what is happening, first to find the magical item, then to stop the energy that it unleashes, and finally to help its victims before they perish.

Bushrell goes to speak with Blaizette, letting the characters focus on other patrons of the stable. When the characters look around, they see six tables that seem likely candidates. Each character should choose a table to investigate.

During these investigations, use DC 10 as the target number for any ability or skill checks the characters might attempt, but feel free to adjust those up or down based on the situation.

Location:: [[Serenne Stable]]
Location_General:: [[Hyrule Ridge]], [[Hebra Region]]
Reward:: 
Type:: Side

### Hook(s)

The characters are approached by a Deku seeking help in finding a powerful magic item.

### Synopsis

- 

### Scene 1: The Tables at the Stable

#### 1A. Table 1

>A small Korok dines alone at this table. She looks out of place in a nice establishment like this. She wears leather armor dirty with sweat, grime, and the stains of moving through vegetation. A fine-looking bow of strange, purple-hued wood is strung across her back.

Casting detect magic shows something is magical in her rucksack. It is a potion of healing.

When approached, the Korok nods but says nothing. If convinced to speak, the Korok says that her name is Surruk. She has been patrolling the Lost Woods for the last two weeks, making sure none of the more malevolent creatures don’t bother anyone. She has recently taken leave for a few days, and she wished to start her vacation with a good meal.

Identifying the unusual wood the bow is made of requires a successful DC 15 Intelligence (Nature) check can identify the bow as being fashioned from Deku Sticks; a rare wood that grows only within the Lost Woods.

#### 1B. Table 2

>Two older Gerudo women dine together, but they seem to be spending more time looking around the room than chatting with each other.

Casting detect magic reveals that one of the women wears a necklace with radiates magic. The magic is simply a spell that keeps the necklace clean and untarnished.

When approached, the two elderly ladies smile and welcome the characters. Their names are Esma and Eve, and they are two widows who meet here once a week to gossip and watch people. If a character can get a word in as the two yammer on, they can give background information on Surruk (table 1), Yanna (table 3), and Schuyler (table 4). They don’t know the other people, but they are more than happy to speculate and make up far-fetched stories.

#### 1C. Table 3

>An older Hylian man and Goron dine together, talking emphatically. Neither looks like an adventurer, as both are dressed in fine clothes.

Casting detect magic indicates that something in the older Hylian’s pack radiates magic. Inside his is a large, glass sphere containing a heavily padded enchanted Lynel’s tooth that causes problems later on.

When approached, the Hylian tells the character that this is a private meeting. The Goron reinforces the sentiment. A successful Wisdom (Perception) check reveals that the Hylian is intentionally trying to go unnoticed.

If the character attempts to take or look inside the Hylian’s pack, he tries to grab it quickly. Unfortunately, in doing so, the pack strikes the leg of his table, breaking the sphere inside and releasing the terrible spell that the tooth holds. The Hylian is the first person targeted by the lightning spell.

Make sure that all the other characters have a chance to interact with their tables before continuing.

#### 1D. Table 4

>A Zora man dines alone, playing with his food with a grumpy expression on this face. He jots notes in a small book on the table.

Casting detect magic reveals the pen the man uses to write is magical. The magic on the pen simply allows it to stay sharp and hold ink.

When approached, the man looks up at the character, perplexed at the interruption. After regaining his bearings, he introduces himself as Schuyler, a food critic. He asks the character if he or she has ever had such a terrible meal. Schuyler points to his plate and says that the cook obviously used too much baba seed oil. Such a thing is far too pungent to use in such quantities. Any character succeeding at a DC 10 Intelligence (Nature) check knows that babas grow locally only within the Lost Woods.

#### 1E. Table 5

>A pale-skinned Sheikah woman dines alone. She looks around nervously as she eats, startling at every sound.

No magic is revealed on or around the Sheikah.

When approached, the Sheikah recoils a bit, as if the character is going to attack. If calmed, she reveals her name is Halda (an alias), and that she is in town visiting family (a lie). In reality, her name is Minnitha, and she is planning to explore the mountains to the north looking for treasure. However, she has already been attacked twice by bandits while in Akkala, and everyone stares at her because her people are not well known.

#### 1F. Table 6

>Three Rito dressed in bright motley colors dine at the bar. They talk loudly, but in a language that is unrecognizable.

One of the Rito wears a belt pouch that radiates faint magic. The pouch contain some dust which magically expands into a cloud when tossed to the ground. It is part of their tumbling act.

When approached, the three Rito, named Tawn, Tane, and Tine, stop their conversation and stare at the character. They answer only in grunts and nods unless the character does something to entertain them. If so, the Rito give their names and say that they are triplets. They performs as tumblers in a traveling show.

### Scene 2: The Lightning Spell

After the glass vial breaks at table 3, the following occurs.

>The Hylian moves quickly, trying to whisk away whatever he was concealing. The sound of glass shattering echoes through the room, and then the Hylian screams as his body is surrounded by a blue crackling energy. He falls to the floor, a dagger-like object clutched in his hand. The Goron at the same table pushes back her chair and runs for the door.

At this point, the characters have different options. Some may want to check on the Hylian, others may want to chase down the fleeing Goron, and others still may want to examine the blue Lynel’s tooth.

As the DM, your main job is controlling the pace. You can have the party roll initiative to keep track of actions. When characters split up, it makes your job more challenging. Allow characters to go in different directions, but keep jumping rapidly between groups to keep everyone in the action. If the characters are about to go too far afield from each other, use the arrival of Deku Protectorate operative Bushrell Caah to bring everyone back together.

#### 2A. Surveying the Scene

Characters who examine the struggling Hylian see that lightning is inundating his body. A successful DC 10 Intelligence (Arcana or Nature) check reveals this lightning is definitely magical—not naturally occurring— and shows no sign of dissipating. Also, there is no way to heal the man or stop the spell that is evident.

Clutched tightly in the human’s hand is a long, daggerlike tooth. A successful DC 15 Intelligence (Nature) check reveals that it is definitely the tooth of a blue Lynel. Prying the tooth from the man (or any contact at all with anyone suffused with the energy) requires a DC 10 Strength check and does 2 (1d4) lightning damage each time it is attempted.

The tooth is warm to the touch, and it pulsates in rhythm with the crackling of the lightning. A DC 10 Intelligence (Arcana) check reveals that the tooth can hold the lightning, but only if the lightning jumps to a person holding the tooth when the lightning reaches them. (If the characters do not learn this information now, it will be told to them later in this mini-adventure.)

After a few seconds (or one round), the man collapses when the lightning jumps to Schuyler at table 4. The lightning jumps to the nearest person who has had recent contact with something from the Lost Woods. Since Schuyler has been eating oil made from babas harvested from the Lost Woods, he is the next target.

#### 2B. Catching the Goron

The fleeing Goron is Yarbo, a high-level representative of The Ironhanded; Hyrule’s Ironworkers’ Guild. He was here to purchase the blue Lynel tooth from the man, who told him that its magic would be a great asset to the guild. He was not aware of the nature of the magic within the tooth.

The characters need to make a DC 15 Strength check to restrain him before he leaves, and then a DC 10 Charisma (Intimidate or Persuasion) check to get him to talk. He doesn’t know much else about the man or the tooth, only that the tooth came from a blue Lynel that supposedly once lived in the Lost Woods.

#### 2C. Bottling the Lightning

Once the characters have all of the information and have seen the lightning spell in progress, all that is left is to figure out why the lightning is jumping to certain people and not others, and then to obtain the Lynel tooth and become the next target to catch the lightning.

However, a few seconds after the lightning leaves the first victim, something strange occurs.

>Although it looked like the Hylian was dead, he rises to his feet. He is alive but moving. He walks, eyes closed, toward the door. He leaves the building, stops in the middle of the street, and stands as if waiting.

The man is alive. Anyone touching him takes 1d4 lightning damage. Any subsequent attack that damages him kills him, but he will continues to move regardless, animated and controlled by the spell. It is possible to restrain him with a successful DC 10 Strength check, but anyone holding him suffers 2 (1d4) lightning damage each round that they do so.

As the lightning leaves each person it affects, they too wander out into the street, join hands and start to form a large circle, which crackles with lightning. Nothing else happens as a result of this strange occurrence.

#### 2D. The Order of Victims

The lightning starts with the original Hylian victim. When it finishes with him, it jumps to Schuyler, who had eaten a large amount of baba seed oil. The next victim is the Korok ranger Surruk, who carries the bow made of Deku Sticks.

After the spell leaves Surruk, it flies out an open window and strikes a small Hylian girl wearing a necklace made of baba seeds. After it leaves her, it strikes the elven man who works at a stall outside the stable where seeds and nuts, including the baba seeds likely worn by the Hylian girl, are sold.

By this time, if the characters have no figured out the pattern, Buhrell Caah should run forward and help the characters put together the puzzle.

In order to catch the spell in the tooth, a character must take the tooth, cover himself or herself with seeds from the vendor’s stall (or something else related to the forest), and be the closest person to the current victim of the spell.

When that happens, the lightning flies to that character, whirls around him or her a few times, and gets drawn into the tooth.

With that, all of the victims of the spell collapse in a heap, unconscious but alive (unless the characters attacked any of them, which means those victims are dead).

### Conclusion

If the original Hylian victim (named Trett) is alive, he says that he is just a merchant who bought the tooth from a traveling band. They showed him that the tooth could be used to heat and work metal more easily than in a forge. So he purchased it to sell it to the Ironworkers’ Guild.

Bushrell Caah thanks the characters for their assistance, and offers them 1000 rp (10 silver) for helping. He wants to take the Lynel tooth back to his Deku Protectorate peers for observation. It is obviously too dangerous to leave with others. If the characters willingly give up the tooth, he offers them a potion of healing. If they do not give up the tooth, then a character can keep it, but it’s a bane for them if they have it for more than a day – it grants them vulnerability to lightning damage.

Finally, he tells them that he has been keeping an eye on the guilds. They have been gaining more and more power in the city recently, and it might be a good idea to watch out for them in the coming weeks and months.

#### Treasure

The characters receive the following treasure, divided up amongst the party. Characters should attempt to divide treasure evenly whenever possible

- Reward from Buhrell Caah: 1000 rp (10 sp)
- Small tourmaline gem: 500 rp ( 5 sp)
* Potion of Healing
* Enchanted Blue Lynel’s Tooth: A character that possesses this item for more than a day has vulnerability to lightning damage.

### References

* Adapted from: A Shock at Evenfeast, Defiance in Phlan