#adventure [[Kaysa]]

### Background

The Great Fairy of Power can be found on a ridge south of Rito Village. The Great Fairy's flower hasn't been open in recent memory, and there's a rumor that a piece of the fairy's power can be found nearby (which may open the flower up). Anyone giving the hook may recommend the party start their search for the Fairy Fragment in the plains east of the fountain known as the Seres Scablands.

Location:: [[Rito Village]], Seres Scablands
Location_General:: [[Tabantha Frontier]], [[Hebra Region]]
Reward:: [[Fairy Fragment (Magenta)]]
Type:: Main

### Hook(s)

The players can either happen upon her flower, where the Great Fairy can be heard through the flower, or a random NPC in Rito can mention her.

### Synopsis

- There are four fairy fountains around Hyrule, each of which can grant benefits to certain classes of players. Kaysa can improve a Fighter, Opportunist, or Scion.
- Each of them requires a small fetch quest prior to opening their flower bud up, which usually consists of an overworld miniboss fight. Kaysa's Magenta Fairy Fragment is being held by a Hinox at Seres Scablands.

### Scene 1: The Fairy Fragment

When the party arrives at Seres Scablands, they find a sleeping **Blue Hinox** (CR 5). They can get in a surprise round if they don't wake the Hinox on approach. When the Hinox drops, a Magenta Fairy Fragment is found left behind.

`encounter: 1: Blue Hinox`

### Scene 2: The Fairy Fountain

At the Fairy Fountain outside of Rito Village, the party will need to present the Magenta Fairy Fragment for the flower to open. Kaysa then explains that she is the Great Fairy of Power, and can give a unique gift to a single Fighter, Opportunist, or Scion.
 - **Fighter:** Gain an extra Feat (of any available to the class)
 - **Opportunist:** Gain an extra Talent (of any available to the class)
 - **Scion:** Gain an extra Spell (of any available to the class, regardless of subclass), which can be cast from the relic once per long rest.

The fairy will enchant the relic, and as long as a player character carries it (requires attunement) they get the specific benefit.

### References
