---
Location: Hebra Peak
Location_General: Hebra Mountains, Hebra Region
Theme-Mechanic: Seasons and Elemental Damages
Recommended-Order: 5
Type: Dungeon
---

#adventure #dungeon 

Maze of the Elements is an ancient underground complex deep within the Hebra Mountains.

```ad-info
title: Area Features
 - ***Ceilings***. The ceilings are made of limestone and rise 20 feet above the floor unless otherwise stated.
 - ***Floors and Walls.*** The floors and walls are made of limestone.
 - ***Doors.*** The few doors which exist are made of stone.
 - ***Lighting.*** The whole area is lit normally with blue fire lanterns.
```

### Scene 1: Inside the Maze

#### M1. Central Chamber

TODO: Add hint if needed?

Otherwise this just goes right to M2 or left to M3.

#### M2. Elements' Maze

This is a magical room that changes each time the players go through a different exit. Depending on the current element, the room they enter when taking a particular exit will be different (based on the Wheel of the Year order of seasons). But taking the northern exit will always result in the elemental feature in the middle of the room transforming into a **Wizzrobe** (CR 3) of the appropriate elemental type, who immediately attacks. When the Wizzrobe is defeated, it drops a small colored orb (appropriate to the element) which can be used in a Seasons Room later. If the players try to go north after defeating the Wizzrobe, then roll a d4 to drop them in a random other room - unless they've defeated all four elements, then they should end up in area M3.

`encounter: 1: Wizzrobe`

Upon first entry to the room, roll a d4 to determine the initial elemental state.

`dice: [[7. Maze of the Elements Dungeon#^maze-of-elements-seasons]]`

>You enter a large room with a substantial carving in the middle of the room. There are exits in all four cardinal directions.
>**Winter**: The carving depicts a large spire of ice.
>**Spring**: The carving depicts a whirling tornado and lightning from storm clouds.
>**Summer**: The carving depicts a pillar of fire.
>**Autumn**: The carving depicts a mound of earth covered in colorful leaves.

#### M3. Seasons Room #1

Upon first entry to the room, roll a d4 to determine the initial elemental state.

`dice: [[7. Maze of the Elements Dungeon#^maze-of-elements-seasons]]`

>You step into the room and suddenly feel like you're in a forest outside. The only object of interest in the room is a large pedestal in the center of it.
>**Winter**: The trees are bare and covered in snow. You don't see any available exit, save for the one you entered from, and there's a large snow drift in front of you.
>**Spring**: The trees are bright and verdant, with fresh leaf growth. There is a mess of overgrown thorns over what could be a door across the room from you, but no other exist save for the one you entered from.
>**Summer**: The trees are dry but still green. There is a wall of fire over what could be a door across the room from you, but no other exist save for the one you entered from.
>**Autumn**: The leaves have fallen off the trees and are laying all over the ground. There is a door across the room from you, clearly open.

Any inspection of the pedestal reveals that it has a depression on the top that might hold a small orb of some sort. Placing one of the Wizzrobe's elemental orbs in the depression will cause the room to shift to that appropriate season. Only the Autumn season (Yellow) will allow them to exit.

**Hint**: A successful DC 15 Investigation or Arcana check will reveal the presence of a yellow glow emanating from the depression on the sundial.

#### M4. Miniboss Chamber

>You enter a room that feels like an outdoor forest, complete with wind rustling through the leaves of the trees. There is a closed door on the far side of the room, and a swordsman clad in cyan is standing in the middle of the forest.

`encounter: 1: Hero of Wind`

As the players approach the swordsman or the door, the cyan swordsman attacks. Once he's defeated, a chest magically appears containing the treasure, and the door on the far side opens.

Miniboss:: [[Hero of Wind]]
Miniboss-Treasure:: [[Gust Jar]]

#### M5. Seasons Room #2

Upon first entry to the room, roll a d4 to determine the initial elemental state. There are also enemies here that make the room more challenging.

`dice: [[7. Maze of the Elements (Dungeon)#^maze-of-elements-monsters]]`

>You enter a room with a large pit between you and the closed door on the other side of the room. There are platforms with what appear to be fans beneath them along your side of the pit.
>**Winter**: A large blue orb sits in the middle of the floor in front of you.
>**Spring**: A large green orb sits in the middle of the floor in front of you.
>**Summer**: A large red orb sits in the middle of the floor in front of you.
>**Autumn**: A large yellow orb sits in the middle of the floor in front of you.

The players find a large pedestal (similar to the previous seasons room) outside of the closed door across the large pit. By using the **Gust Jar** to create gusts of wind, they can propel a platform (carrying the orb) across the pit toward the pedestal. The players must make a successful DC 12 Dexterity (Ranged Attack) check to accurately aim and propel the platform. Placing the orb on the pedestal opens the door.

**Hint**: A switch next to the door the PCs entered from can be found with a DC 12 Investigation check. Pressing it will open a section of the wall, revealing a stream of wind that starts to move the closest platform toward the far door.

#### M6. Music Room

The players encounter wind chimes with different musical tones. They must utilize the Gust Jar to create precise gusts and play a specific melody on the wind chimes to unlock the door. Mechanics: The players make Charisma (Performance) checks to control the Gust Jar and create the right gusts to play the melody.

#### M7. Orb Chamber

There are three indentations on the pedestal here. The players will need to place whatever remaining orbs they have in the order in which they defeated those elemental Wizzrobes. Doing so will unlock the door. Putting them in the wrong order will cause the orbs to blow up, inflicting 2d8 damage per orb (of the orb's type) placed for any player within 10 feet (anyone in the room). The door then still opens, but the orbs are destroyed.

#### M8. Boss Chamber

>You enter a large chamber with nothing but a lamp in the middle of it. As soon as you step in, the door slams shut. Out of the lamp pours a purple smoke that coalesces into a mostly humanoid form.

`encounter: 1: Malicious Djinn`

When the boss is defeated, it disappears into nothing more than a warm breeze, and a chest magically appears containing the treasure, as well as a cyan medallion with a lotus symbol on it.

Boss:: [[Malicious Djinn]]
Boss-Treasure:: [[Farore's Wind]]
Reward:: [[Sage Medallion]] (Wind)

### Conclusion

Farore's Wind needs to be used to exit the dungeon, which serves as training for how to use it.

### Random Tables

| d4  | Season | Element    | Orb Color | East   | West   | South  |
|:---:|:------ |:---------- |:--------- |:------ |:------ |:------ |
|  1  | Winter | Ice (Cold) | Blue      | Spring | Autumn | Summer |
|  2  | Spring | Lightning  | Green     | Summer | Winter | Autumn |
|  3  | Summer | Fire       | Red       | Autumn | Spring | Winter |
|  4  | Autumn | Thunder    | Yellow    | Winter | Summer | Spring |
^maze-of-elements-seasons

| d4  | Season | Monsters                                                 |
|:---:|:------ |:-------------------------------------------------------- |
|  1  | Winter | `encounter: 1d8: ChuChu, 1d8: Keese` (Ice)               |
|  2  | Spring | `encounter: 1d3: Black Lizalfos, 1d8: Keese` (Lightning) |
|  3  | Summer | `encounter: 1d8 ChuChu, 1d6 Pebblit` (Fire)              |
|  4  | Autumn |                                                          |
^maze-of-elements-monsters

### References
