#adventure #dungeon [[Hebra Mountains]]

Maze of the Elements is an ancient underground complex deep within the Hebra Mountains.

```ad-info
title: Area Features
 - ***Ceilings***. The ceilings are made of limestone and rise 20 ft. above the floor unless otherwise stated.
 - ***Floors and Walls.*** The floors and walls are made of limestone.
 - ***Doors.*** The few doors which exist are made of stone.
 - ***Lighting.*** The whole area is normally lit with lanterns.
```

### Scene 1: Inside the Maze

#### M1. Central Chamber

TODO: Add hint if needed?

Otherwise this just goes right to M2 or left to M3.

#### M2. Elements' Maze

This is a magical room that changes each time the players go through a different exit. Depending on the current element, the room they enter when taking a particular exit will be different (based on the Wheel of the Year order of seasons). But taking the northern exit will always result in the elemental feature in the middle of the room transforming into a **Wizzrobe** (CR 3), of the appropriate elemental type, and attacking. When the Wizzrobe is defeated, it drops a small colored orb (appropriate to the element) which can be used in a Seasons Room later. If the players try to go north after defeating the Wizzrobe, then roll a d4 to drop them in a random other room - unless they've defeated all four elements, and then they should end up in M8.

Upon first entry to the room, roll a d4 to determine the initial elemental state.

| d4 | Season / Element  | East   | West   | South  |
|:--:|:------------------|:-------|:-------|:-------|
| 1  | Winter / Ice      | Spring | Autumn | Summer |
| 2  | Spring / Lightning| Summer | Winter | Autumn |
| 3  | Summer / Fire     | Autumn | Spring | Winter |
| 4  | Autumn / Thunder  | Winter | Summer | Spring |

<div class='descriptive'>
You enter a large room with a substantial carving in the middle of the room. There are exits in all four cardinal directions.

**Winter**: The carving depicts a large spire of ice.
	
**Spring**: The carving depicts a whirling tornado and lightning from storm clouds.

**Summer**: The carving depicts a pillar of fire.

**Autumn**: The carving depicts a mound of earth covered in colorful leaves.
</div>

#### M3. Seasons Room #1

Upon first entry to the room, roll a d4 to determine the initial elemental state.

| d4 | Season  | Orb Color |
|:--:|:--------|:----------|
| 1  | Winter  | Blue |
| 2  | Spring  | Green |
| 3  | Summer  | Red |
| 4  | Autumn  | Yellow |

>You step into the room and suddenly feel like you're in a forest outside. The only object of interest in the room is a large sundial in the center of it.
>**Winter**: The trees are bare and covered in snow. You don't see any available exit, save for the one you entered from, and there's a large snow drift in front of you.
>**Spring**: The trees are bright and verdant, with fresh lead growth. There is a mess of overgrown thorns over what could be a door across the room from you, but no other exist save for the one you entered from.
>**Summer**: The trees are dry but still green. There is a wall of fire over what could be a door across the room from you, but no other exist save for the one you entered from.
>**Autumns**: The leaves have fallen off the trees and are laying all over the ground. There is a door across the room from you, clearly open.

Any inspection of the sundial reveals that it has a depression on the top that might hold a small orb of some sort. Placing one of the Wizzrobe's elemental orbs in the depression will cause the room to shift to that appropriate season. Only the Autumn season (Yellow) will allow them to exit.

**Hint**: A successful DC 15 Investigation or Arcana check will reveal the presence of a yellow glow imminating from the depression on the sundial.

#### M4. Miniboss Chamber

>You enter a room full of water and a small patch of land in the middle. There is a closed door on the far side of the room, and knight clad in white standing in the middle of the land patch.

`encounter: 1: Hero of Wind`

As the players approach the knight or the door, the **Hero of Wind** appears to challenge them. Once he's defeated, a chest magically appears containing the **Prism Rod**, and the door on the far side opens.

#### M5. Seasons Room #2

This follows the same pattern as Seasons Room #1, except the season required to exit is Summer (Red orb). Casting a fire spell of any sort from the Prism Rod, or physically touching it to the sundail, can also be used to complete this rather than using another orb. This room also contains monsters, depending on the current season, who spawn anew when the season changes.

| d4 | Season  | Monsters |
|:--:|:--------|:----------|
| 1  | Winter  | 1d8 White ChuChus + 1d8 Ice Keese |
| 2  | Spring  |  |
| 3  | Summer  |  |
| 4  | Autumn  |  |

#### M6. Orb Chamber

There are three indentations on the pedestal here. The players will need to place whatever remaining orbs they have in the order in which they defeated those elemental Wizzrobes. Doing so will unlock the door. Putting them in the wrong order will cause the orbs to blow up, inflicting 2d8 Fire damage per orb placed for any player within 10 feet (anyone in the room). The door then still opens, but the orbs are destroyed.

#### M7. Boss Chamber

The players enter a large chamber with nothing but a lamp in the middle of it. As soon as they step in, the door slams shut and a **Malicious Djinn** appears.

`encounter: 1: Malicious Djinn`

When the Djinn is defeated, a chest magically appears containing **Nayru's Love**, as well as random rupees.

#### M8. Treasure Room

This room can only be encountered if all of the elemental Wizzrobes are fought and defeated. Roll up random random rupees and gems.

### Conclusion


### References
