#adventure [[Serenne Stable]]

### Background

A Zora tinkerer looks for help in rescuing his daughter from a group of the corrupt and vile New Lomei Tribe.

>As the sun finally sets in the west, you settle down for one last beverage. Whittlee, one of Freona’s daughters, sees to the late-night crowd. Her startlingly white hair is pulled back in a tight braid. She expertly juggles pots of tea, tankards of ale, flagons of wine, and other assorted mugs and cups.
>The door to the stable opens, revealing a worried-looking Zora. He wears patchwork clothes and wrings a floppy hat nervously in his calloused hands.
>He peers around the room pensively, until his eyes focus on your group. He quickly walks toward you, ignoring the stares and whispered jibes from some of the other patrons. “Are you adventurers? My little girl is in terrible trouble. Will you hear my story? I can pay!”

### Hook(s)


### Synopsis

- 

### Scene 1: A Troubled Zora

When the characters agree to hear his tale, the Zora relates the following:
- The Zora is a tinkerer called Rillo Leadstopper. His daughter is called Villonah. After Villonah’s mother died, the girl became wild and inconsolable. She has been in trouble with the law ever since.
- Most of the crimes were minor offenses that earned her small fines or a few days in the jail. However, her previous acts made her a “usual suspect” for the New Lomei Tribe.
- Last night, while Villonah was visiting her father’s home, the guards arrested her. They gave no indication of the charges.
- In the past she was held in Hyrule Castle, and the next day Rillo goes and pays for her release. This time when he went to Castle Town Prison to inquire about her, he was told she was not in the castle jail. Rillo tried to find her whereabouts by bribing guards and calling in favors, but no one knows her whereabouts.
- In a panic, he asked about her in the seedier parts of town. He found a cutpurse who spoke of a secret prison that a small group of New Lomei Tribe guards covertly use to torture and murder prisoners without their leadership finding out. He heard a rumor she was taken there because Villonah stole something valuable from one of those guards.
- It is unlikely that the leadership of the New Lomei Tribe knows that this secret prison exists and that the guards who use it do so in a personal capacity.
- The prison, he heard, is located beneath the ruins of the North Lomei Labyrinth.
- If the characters go there and learn how to release her, he offers 500 rp for the information. If the party is able to release her, he's willing to throw in a fine magnifying glass as well.

### Scene 2: The Secret Prison

```ad-info
title: Area Features
collapse: true
- ***Ceilings.*** In the rooms of the prison, all ceilings are ten feet high.
- **Light.*** All areas of the secret prison are sparsely lit by torches.
- ***Sound.*** The moans, cries, and muttering of the prisoners occasionally echo throughout the prison.
- ***Rubble.*** Area 3C is littered with areas of rubble. These areas are treated as difficult terrain.
```

Rillo leads the characters to the secret entrance, which is simply a tunnel starting at the mouth of the lake and running under Akkala to the secret chambers beneath the ruined Citadel. The tunnel is not guarded, and it runs for several hundred yards before it ends in a door. The stonework around the door is well crafted, unlike the rudimentary tunnel.

A DC 10 Wisdom (Perception) check from anyone listening at the door reveals occasional low whimpers and unintelligible babbling within.

The door is locked, and a DC 10 Dexterity check is needed to pick the lock, provided the character attempting this check has a set of thieves’ tools. Otherwise, the door must be bashed down with a DC 10 Strength check. Bashing down the door automatically alerts the guards in Area 3B.

#### 2A. Prisoners

>This room contains eight cells, five currently occupied by prisoners who start begging to be released as you enter. A door to the east is barred from this side, and there is also a door on the south wall. A stone chair is bolted to the floor in the room’s center, and interrogation instruments hang from the walls.

When the prisoners see the characters, they begin to call for the characters to release them. The noise risks alerting the guards. To quiet the criminals before the guards come, a character must succeed at a DC 15 Charisma (Intimidation or Persuasion) check.

Of the five prisoners here, four are in terrible condition from starvation and dehydration. They can walk on their own, but they are in no condition to fight. Two only have one ear, a likely sign that they are members of the Yiga Clan. The other two ran afoul of the New Lomei Tribe in other ways. If asked about Villonah, the prisoners say that she was thrown into the Funhouse, and they point to the door to the east, which is barred from this side.

The last prisoner is a cultist, having been driven insane by his long confinement and exposure to the obelisks in Area 3C. He attacks the creature closest to him once he is released from his cell. A character talking to him and succeeding at a DC 10 Wisdom (Insight) check can realize that he is not just mad, but he is homicidal and will attack if released. If the combat goes more than one round, the noise alerts the guards.

#### 2B. Guard Room

This door is not locked. The occupants do not pay close attention to what is happening in the other room unless the door is bashed down, the cultist fanatic attacks, or the characters fail to quiet the prisoners.

<div class='descriptive'>
A table and some chairs dominate the center of the room, while a couple of bunks line the walls. A small cooking stove rests in the corner.
</div>

Four guards play cards while a large dog (wolf statistics) naps on a straw pallet nearby. The guards are here in their free time and are not on duty. As such, they are not wearing armor or shields (their AC is 11). They do have their weapons, however.

```ad-info
title: Adjusting the Encounter
collapse: true
Here are recommendations for adjusting this combat encounter. These are not cumulative.
- **Weak party:** remove two guards
- **Strong party:** the guards are wearing their armor
- **Very strong party:** the guards are wearing their armor and add one wolf
```

#### 2C. Funhouse

This area is the home of a terrible creature. When the guards are ready to kill a prisoner, or if they want to drive a prisoner mad to help with later interrogations, they lock a prisoner in this room.

>This chamber was once grand but is now in shambles. The walls have collapsed in and given way to earth. An obelisk stands in the middle of the room, covered in sigils.
>A cage has been erected in the middle of the room surrounded by a number of peculiar obelisks made of black stone. Within the cage, a young woman dressed in a simple gray tunic sits on the floor--her back to the obelisk. She rocks back and forth with her head in her hands, saying a mad whisper, “Can't run away. Can't run away.”

A grick (marked G on the map) lives in this sealed off area. It is currently hiding and will attack the first character to approach the cage in the center of the room. Some areas on the map show areas where the ceiling collapsed. This is difficult terrain. Due to the obelisks in the room, the grick typically does not move too far into the room, but when the characters enter, the grick simply can't resist. When the characters enter this area, the grick is hiding.

**Obelisks.** Any time a creature passes within 5 feet of the pillar, it sends out a pulse of magical energy. The triggering creature must make a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on it early on a success. If the creature's saving throw is successful or the effect on it ends, the creature is immune to this effect for the next 24 hours. For all intents and purposes, the obelisks are collectively considered to a single source for this effect.

```ad-info
title: Frightened
collapse: true
A frightened creature has disadvantage on ability checks and attack rolls while the source of its fear is within line of sight.

The creature can't willingly move closer to the source of its fear.
```

The obelisks are quite old and fragile, and can be destroyed (AC 8, 5 hp). They can also be pushed over with a successful DC 5 Strength check. Doing either of these things, however, causes the ceiling of the cavern around the obelisk to collapse, dealing 7 (2d6) bludgeoning damage to each creature in a square adjacent to the obelisks and knocking that creature prone. A creature making a successful DC 10 Dexterity saving throw takes only half damage is not knocked prone. Note that the grick’s damage resistances are effective against damage from the ceiling collapse.

**Cage.** In the center of the room is a cage that the guards have been using to torment their prisoners. It is quite small, just large for an adult to stand, but due to her size, Villonah is able to sit. When the characters enter this area, she is seated with her back to the entrance. The door is on the north face of the cage.

**Villonah** (marked V on the map) will not move unless carried. If someone tries to pick her up, however, she struggles. A character must use an action to grab her, and her struggling makes the character carrying her move at half speed. If the character takes an action to calm Villonah—a successful DC 15 Charisma (Persuasion) check—then she still will not walk on her own, but she does not struggle against being carried.

### Scene 3: A Second Rescuer

After the characters have dealt with the grick, they can return to the room with the cages. They find that someone waits for them there.

>A Rito stands before the door into the tunnel. She has an arrow nocked and trained on you. “Put the woman down and leave. You will not take her anywhere and torture her more. There may be more of you, but some of you will not survive the fight if you try to take her.”

The Rito is Ivia (use the scout statistics), a member of a group dedicated to fighting the tyranny of the New Lomei Tribe. Villonah is also a member of the group.

As long as the characters make no overt actions against Ivia, she does not fight. If the characters can bring Villonah out of her stupor with a successful DC 10 Wisdom (Medicine) check, the imprisoned woman can confirm Ivia is a friend.

Either way, the whole reason for Villonah’s imprisonment is hidden on her. She stole a map from the New Lomei Tribe that is rumored to lead to the lair of a white Lynel in the mountains to the north. She created a patch of fake skin, hiding the map on the sole of her right foot.

```ad-info
title: Adjusting the Encounter
collapse: true
Here are recommendations for adjusting this combat encounter. These are not cumulative unless otherwise noted.
- **Weak party:** the grick is injured, possessing only 13 hit points
- **Strong party:** the obelisks pulse each round after the first character sets one off, forcing each creature within 5 feet of an obelisk to make a saving throw or be frightened
- **Very strong party:** same as strong party, plus the grick has 40 hit points.
```

As long as the characters allow Villonah and Ivia to keep the map and take it back to their group, no hostilities take place. In fact, Ivia rewards the characters with an additional 500 rp and a potion of healing.

Rillo is relieved to have his daughter back, and he offers the characters the reward he promised. Villonah and Ivia tell the characters that the New Lomei Tribe knights hold the honest citizens of the Tabantha and Hebrra Regions in a state of fear with their tyranny, and their interest in anything related to Lynels is a bad sign for the city.

### Conclusion

##### Treasure

The characters receive the following treasure, divided up amongst the party. Characters should attempt to divide treasure evenly whenever possible.

- Payment from Rillo 500 rp (5 sp)
- Magnifying glass from Rillo 500 rp (5 sp)
- Payment from Ivia 500 rp (5 sp)
* Potion of Healing

### References

