---
Location: Thundra Plateau
Location_General: Hyrule Ridge, Hebra Region
Theme-Mechanic: Thunder and Lightning
Recommended-Order: 6
Type: Dungeon
---

#adventure #dungeon 

Players enter this dungeon from the visible plateau north of Hyrule Ridge, by placing metal orbs that are struck by lightning, which opens up a staircase down.

```ad-info
title: Area Features
 - ***Ceilings***. The ceilings are made of stone and rise 30 feet above the floor unless otherwise stated.
 - ***Floors and Walls.*** The walls are made of stone, and the floors are stone.
 - ***Doors.*** The few doors which exist are made of stone.
 - ***Lighting.*** The whole area is normally lit with orbs of yellow-green electrical energy.
```

### Scene 1: Gaining Entry

Thundra Plateau has four pillar-like statues that each have a different symbol on them. A perpetual thunder and lightning storm blankets the plateau.

In the center of the plateau are four metallic orbs with the same four symbols that are on the statues. The players will need to place each of the four orbs on top of the matching statue. Once all four are placed, lightning will attracted to the area from the storm, and as all four statues are struck simultaneously, the center of the plateau opens up to reveal a staircase down.

### Scene 2: Inside the Plateau

#### T1. Central Chamber

>You enter a room outside of a large central chamber which is enclosed by glass. Inside the glass chamber is a large golem-like creature with an electrical generator above it.

This is the central chamber of the dungeon, where the Lightning Golem boss can be seen through a pane of thick, unbreakable glass. The golem is currently unconscious, but every minute (dungeon round) a bolt of lightning arcs from an electricity generator on the ceiling. Roll against the Golem's AC, and on a hit the lightning recharges the Golem for 1d12 hit points (based on the *witch bolt* spell). Once the lightning hits the first time, it continues to successfully recharge the Golem 1d12 hit points every minute until it's interrupted somehow (such as the generator being destroyed).

#### T2. Holding Hands

>Two electrical generators are on either side of the wall in this room, with a chain hanging down from each to nearly the floor. One door is closed on the opposite end of the room.

The players need to complete a circuit with their bodies or metal object(s) in order to open the door (escape room style). One generator is on the window wall to the Golem, above the glass; while the other is on the outer wall.

#### T3. Shock Treatment

>A large fountain takes up the majority of the space in this room, depicting a person holding a large spear aimed just above the fountain. A locked door is on the far side of the room.

Inside the fountain is the key to the door. The floor of the fountain is basically one large pressure plate which triggers the trap, causing the statue to plunge its spear into the water, electrifying it. Any creature in the water when the trap is triggered must make a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw or take 1d12 lightning damage, or half as much on a success.

#### T4. Miniboss Chamber

>You enter a room full of sand, with a closed door on the far end. A knight clad in yellow-green stands in the center of the room, lightning crackling all around him.

As the players approach the knight or the door, the Hero of Lightning appears to challenge them. Once he's defeated, a chest magically appears containing the treasure, and the door on the far side opens.

`encounter: 1: Hero of Lightning`

Miniboss:: [[Hero of Lightning]]
Miniboss-Treasure:: [[Cane of Pacci]]

#### T5. Flipping the Floor

>The floor is covered in a copper tiled mosaic, with a line of the copper tiles along the middle of the room. Two green piles sit on the floor on either side of that line. A door on the far side of the room is closed and locked.

The floor is covered in a copper tiled mosaic, with an unbroken line along the middle (dividing the two sides where the doors are). Two **shambling mounds** (CR 5) are on either side of that middle line. Once every round (starting the instant the players enter the room), an electrical generator on the ceiling discharges, letting lightning strike the copper, and allowing the shambling mounds to regenerate 1d12 hit points (as per Lightning Absorption). Tiles are stone with copper coating on just one side and can be flipped over by the **Cane of Pacci** - which prevents lightning from striking or propagating across that spot.

`encounter: 2: Shambling Mound`

The key to the door can be under one of the stone floor tiles, or one of the shambling mounds, depending on how the players proceed. But any player who is in contact with a copper tile when the electricity goes off takes 1d12 lightning damage.

#### T6. Conductive Water

>Electricity arcs out of two generators on either side of this room, with a stream of water between them. On the other side of the room is a closed door with an inactive electrical switch above it.

The generators have electrified the water, so any creature entering the water at any time will need to make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or take 1d12 lightning damage, taking none on a successful save (where the jump was timed to miss the arc pattern).

The goal here is to redirect the electricity somehow to the switch above the door, which opens once the switch is activated. Using the **Cane of Pacci** on the switch would also cause it to activate, as there is an electricity stream behind it.

**Hint**: A successful DC 12 Investigation check reveals the presence of electricity behind the switch that would cause it to be activated if it were flipped over.

#### T7. Electric Orbs

Two electric orbs must be placed on platforms in order to open the door. One platform is unobstructed, so it could be a simple matter of just carrying the orb over there. The other platform is surrounded by water though, so anyone who walks through the water holding an electric orb gets shocked, taking 1d12 lightning damage. The orb can be thrown and land on its platform with a successful DC 15 Athletics check.

#### T8. Switchboard

The players find a room with a complex switchboard puzzle. They must flip specific objects using the **Cane of Pacci** to establish the correct connections and complete the electrical circuit, unlocking the door.

TODO: Come up with the detailed diagram (maybe a Sheikah circuit-like design?) and hints to the players. The really ambitious approach would be to create a physical puzzle prop, maybe with those little induction LEDs (that can move in defined tracks and be flipped over to light up).

#### T9. Boss Chamber

Malicious Lightning Golem. Can be seen in the central chamber of the dungeon, and is slowly being charged with energy as the players explore (Witch Bolt cast every round). After the golem is fully healed (it starts with 0 HP), it attacks the party.

`encounter: 1: Malicious Lightning Golem`

When the boss is defeated, it shatters into a shower of sparks and leaves behind the treasure, as well as a yellow medallion with a lightning bolt symbol on it. And the party levels up!

Boss:: [[Malicious Lightning Golem]]
Boss-Treasure:: [[Roc's Cape]]
Reward:: [[Sage Medallion]] (Lightning)

### Conclusion


### References
