#adventure [[Serenne Stable]]

### Background

A troublesome cry disturbs the morning meal, as a distraught woman seeks aid.

>After a peaceful night’s rest, Briez, one of Madame Freona’s five daughters, is serving you a delightful breakfast, which includes freshly made wildberry jam on warm biscuits.
>“My sisters and I picked the berries ourselves,” says the young halfling woman, sweeping her long black hair out of her face. “Some say the wildberries in Hyrule are—”
>Before Briez can finish her thought, shrieking erupts from the street outside the stable. While the words are mostly unintelligible, you do make out “help” and “family.”

Location:: [[Serenne Stable]]
Location_General:: [[Hyrule Ridge]], [[Hebra Region]]
Reward:: 
Type:: Side

### Hook(s)


### Synopsis

- 

### Scene 1: The Distraught Woman

When the characters go into the street, townsfolk are rushing to assist a middle-aged Hylian woman. She has collapsed in the middle of the road, crying hysterically, clutching an infant boy in her arms. If the characters don’t calm her, another passerby does, allowing her to tell her story.

Her name is Millivent Moss. Her family farms peat from a wetland about an hour from the stable. Earlier this morning her husband and children, as well as a few hired hands, were attacked by Bokoblins.

She was able to leap onto a wagon and escape with her youngest child Bo, still an infant. She drove away quickly, turning just long enough to see bokoblins dragging people away to the east. It looks like they were still alive, perhaps being taken captive.

She needs someone to come to her family’s aid, rescuing them if possible.

After this information is given, two Royal Guards come upon the scene, ordering people to stop blocking traffic on the street. When Millivent tells them her story, they roll their eyes, sigh, and say that their jurisdiction lay only within the civilized areas of Hyrule. Then one pulls a small piece of paper from a pouch, hands it to the nearest adventurer, and orders them to go investigate. The paper is a promissory note entitling its bearer to 500 rp from the family’s coffers for services rendered.

The characters should hurry to assist Millivent, although they certainly can take the time to get their equipment, don armor, prepare spells, and do anything else to gear up for an adventure — quickly!

### Scene 2: Tracking Through Ludfo's Bog

Millivent takes the characters to her wagon and drives them back to her family’s peat harvesting farm. She shows them where the raid took place, and tell them once more that it looked like the bokoblins were taking the prisoners to the east. She doesn’t know the number of bokoblins, but claims that there were too many to count. Her husband Haldred, her daughters Alleena and Kithian, her sons Quayle and Volland, and six hired hands were at the farm when the attack took place.

For tracking purposes, treat the area as swampland. The characters must attempt a Wisdom (Survival) check to find and follow the tracks. One character may attempt this check, and one other character can assist using the Help action (which gives advantage on the original Wisdom check). Use the chart below to determine the results of the check.

```ad-info
title: Tracking Success Chart
 - Wisdom Check Less than 7: Add 2 bokoblins to the lair
 - Wisdom Check 7-11: Add 1 bokoblin to the lair
 - Wisdom Check 11-15: No adjustment
 - Wisdom Check More than 15: Remove 1 bokoblin from the lair
```

Bokoblins can be added to the lair in room 2A or 2C, and are in addition to any other adjustments made. Regardless of the check result, the characters do find the tracks of the bokoblins eventually and they can follow their tracks back to the caves that the bokoblins call home. Depending on the results of the Wisdom (Survival) check and the abilities of the characters (i.e. rangers may have the ability to know numbers of creatures automatically), dole out information as you see fit.

- The trails make it appear that about a dozen prisoners were being dragged.
- The prints in the mud show that more than a dozen bokoblin-sized creatures passed through here today.
- One larger-sized creature also walked with the other creatures. The print size reveals that this creature was probably larger than a human, though not as large as an ogre.

### Scene 3: The Lair Entrance

After traversing the wetlands for at least an hour (adjust the time based on the level of success in the Wisdom (Survival) check), the characters finally come to the end of the trail. The trail leads directly into the mouth of a cave in the side of a hill rising from the bog. Brush and other low vegetation allow the characters to easily hide and observe the following.

At the entrance, the characters observe a bokoblin talking in Common to a human-sized figured dressed in heavy cloaks that obscure his face. The voice is male and human-sounding.

>The bokoblin says in broken Common, “Only one raiding group back. They bring prisoners. Other raiders back soon. No more snake coin people found.”
>The human nods and says, “Excellent. Tell Gorrunk that my friends and I will pay lots of coin and give lots of gifts for all of the Lynel artifacts you can find. And kill any other humans who you find near your home.”
>The bokoblin nods and enters the cave, while the cloaked figure whispers a word and simply vanishes.

This should get across to the characters that something bigger is behind the bokoblin attack, and that many more bokoblins are going to be returning to the lair soon. They have very little time to rescue the prisoners!

No further movement or traffic occurs near the cave entrance, although there is an occasional bokoblin shout or human scream echoing from within.

### Scene 4: The Bokoblin Lair

```ad-info
title: Area Features
collapse: true
- ***Ceilings.*** All ceilings in the bokoblin lair are 10 feet tall.
- ***Light.*** Unless otherwise noted, the areas of the bokoblin lair are unlit.
```

This bokoblin tribe moved into this cave system less than a month ago. A young black Lynel dominated the area before that, but it died in a fight with some adventurers. The adventurers perished as well, leaving the place open for occupation.

The bokoblins thought their luck was great in finding the place. However, the presence of the Lynel brought other interested parties — the Cult of the Lynel in particular. After the Cult killed many bokoblins while exploring the extensive cave system, the two sides struck a deal. The bokoblins would excavate and explore the former Lynel’s lair, and the Cult would purchase from them anything relevant to their interests in Lynels.

A member of the Royal Guard, following a lead that Cult activity was spotted in the area, entered the cave to investigate. He was waylaid by the bokoblins. Now the bokoblins are raiding the countryside at the behest of the Cult, ensuring that no more Royal Guard soldiers happen across the area.

#### 4A. Entrance Passage

The passage is unlit, although the sunlight reaches far enough into the 10-foot-wide cave passage to let you see that it travels about 25 feet before turning south. Piles of rubble are strewn in the passage, large enough to hide behind. If any character takes the time to listen, a successful DC 10 Wisdom (Perception) check reveals that some soft, guttural mumbling is coming from behind the eastern wall where the passageway turns south. The same check reveals that small holes riddle the wall, allowing for viewing up the passage by creatures behind the wall.

The piles of rubble are large enough to allow characters to hide as they move up the passage. The two bokoblins behind the eastern wall are not paying close attention, so a successful DC 10 Dexterity (Stealth) check lets a character sneak past unnoticed.

If the bokoblins are alerted, they shoot through the holes at anyone in the passageway between their wall and the cave entrance. Treat the holes as arrow slits, giving the bokoblins three-quarters cover. After shooting two arrows each, the bokoblins spend an action to pull an alarm rope that alerts everyone in the Guard Room (2C) to the intruders. Note that the alarm rope can be disabled in the Trapped Room (2B).

After that, the bokoblins remain in the alcove looking for more intruders. They were told not to leave their posts under any circumstances, so they do not.

```ad-info
title: Adjusting the Adventure
collapse: true
Here are recommendations for adjusting this combat encounter. These are not cumulative.
- **Weak party:** remove one bokoblin
- **Strong party:** add one bokoblin
- **Very strong party:** add two bokoblins
```

#### 4B. Trapped Room

>This room is littered with ratty blankets and bedrolls, some small bones from eaten rodents, and other filthy remnants of fine bokoblin living. Lice-ridden furs decorate the walls.

A **tripwire** has been set across the entrance to this room, roughly two feet above the ground. Any creature passing through the area containing the tripwire sets off the trap. The trap can be found with a successful DC 10 Wisdom (Perception) check and disabled by a character with a set of thieves’ tools with a successful DC 10 Dexterity check.

If trigged, stones fall into the ceiling of the 10-foot by 40-foot section of Area 2A directly north of the tripwire. Any creature in the trapped area takes 5 (2d4) bludgeoning damage from falling rocks. A successful DC 10 Dexterity saving throw halves this damage. The trap also sets off alarm bells in other parts of the lair.

If the trap is successfully disarmed, pulling the alarm rope in other areas of the lair has no effect. Since it is all made of one complicated set of ropes and bells, the bokoblins in other areas are not aware that pulling the rope has no effect elsewhere.

A **hidden door** curtain of wolf pelts hanging conceals a hallway in the southeastern corner of the room. The hallway can be found by removing the pelts, though any character with a passive Perception of 15 or higher automatically notices it.

#### 4C. Guard Room

This room contains three bokoblins and two wolves. If the characters were able to get this far without being seen, or if they disarmed the alarm before it was triggered, they get a surprise round in this combat.

>Like the previous room, this one contains mostly bedrolls and a few decrepit furnishings where the bokoblins rest and relax when not out doing the terrible things that bokoblins do.
>Three cages against the east wall, between two doors, two of which house a single wolf each. They snarl and snap in your direction.

When combat begins, one bokoblin attacks while the others run to the two cages that each hold a wolf. As an action, a bokoblin can unlock a cage and release the wolf within it. If the characters are lucky, good, or both, they might be able to defeat the bokoblins before the wolves can be released.

```ad-info
title: Adjusting the Encounter
collapse: true
Here are recommendations for adjusting this combat encounter. These are not cumulative.
- **Weak party:** remove one bokoblin and one wolf
- **Strong party:** change one of the wolves to a worg
- **Very strong party:** change both of the wolves to worgs, and they are uncaged
```

#### 4D. Boss and Prisoners

This room is lit by torches and contains three bokoblins and a moblin called Gorrunk who has taken leadership of the bokoblins.

>The room itself is better furnished than the previous rooms, with some serviceable tables and chairs, some palatable food and drink, and even a larger chair sitting on a granite slab at the far end. Several passages lead out of the room deeper into the cave.
>Some bokoblins stand around the room, all looking for direction from a large moblin. Two large cages at the back of the room hold the 11 prisoners taken from the peat bog. In addition, a human dressed in black underclothing, the kind you would typically wear under armor, is caged.

The twelfth prisoner is Chaab, the Royal Guard soldier who was captured investigating Cult activities in the caves. If the characters have managed to be stealthy to this point, not setting off any of the alarms, the creatures here are not overly wary and the characters get a surprise round. If the alarm has been raised, they are fully prepared when the characters enter.

If the characters kill the moblin Gorrunk, the remaining bokoblins surrender. Gorrunk carries the keys to the prisoner cages, which can also be picked with a DC 15 Dexterity check, provided the character attempting this check has a set of thieves’ tools.

The peat workers are terrified but grateful for being rescued and otherwise cannot offer much in the way of information or assistance. Chaab, however, can offer the following:
- The Royal Guard have been investigating some strange happenings in the area. A black Lynel laired here until recently, and it was parleying with humans for some reason.
- The Lynel hadn’t been seen in a while, but the humans were still skulking in the area, so Chaab came to investigate.
- He found that the Lynel had been killed by adventurers, but the adventurers perished as well. Someone emptied the Lynel’s hoard and started harvesting parts of the dead creature.
- Chaab was trying to escape the lair and report his findings when he was waylaid by dozens of bokoblins. Since then, the bokoblins have been in talks with the humans to secure the area. He doesn’t know more about their relationship.
- There are dozens, if not hundreds, of bokoblins living elsewhere in the lair. Their numbers are currently low because they were raiding the countryside. If the group doesn’t escape soon, the sheer numbers of bokoblins will be too much to fight.

```ad-info
title: Adjusting the Encounter
collapse: true
Here are recommendations for adjusting this combat encounter. These are not cumulative.
- **Weak party:** remove all the bokoblins
- **Strong party:** add two bokoblins
- **Very strong party:** add four bokoblins
```

### Conclusion

If the characters leave the area immediately, they encounter no more bokoblins. If there is time, you can make a few implications that more bokoblins are just around the corner or pursuing the characters.

### Treasure

The peat workers don’t have much to offer in terms of rewards, but Chaab gives the characters a handful of stashed gems worth 100 gp for freeing him. He also gives a potion of climbing that he was saving for a special occasion. In addition, he shows the characters that the shield Gorrunk was using was actually the scale of a dragon. While it acts simply as a regular shield, it is a trophy that can be carried with pride.

- Payment from the Royal Guard: 500 rp (5 silver)
- Payment from Chaab: 1000 rp (10 silver)
- Dragon scale shield: 500 rp (5 silver)
* Potion of Climbing

### References

* Adapted from: The Screams at Dawn, Defiance in Phlan
