#adventure 

### Background

This fun little chase serves as an opportunity to expand on the Yiga as a group of thieves, while exploring the desert and the bazaar.

Location:: [[Kara Kara Bazaar]]
Reward:: 100 rp
Type:: Side

### Hook(s)

Characters may happen upon this adventure by just chatting with Bozai or entering his shop. Alternatively, they may see some Yiga Footsoldiers sneaking around a back alley, or they may hear a loud crashing sound coming from the back of Bozai's shop.

### Synopsis

- 

### Scene 1: Bozai's Rug Shop

>This cramped, musty shop is filled with ornate rugs of many styles and designs. An older Hylian smiles and hops down from atop a stack of folded carpets beside the shop's wide-open doors. "Welcome! Does anything catch your eye?"

From the front of his store, Bozai sells all manner of rugs. At the shop's rear, several hanging rugs hide a secret room containing Bozai's stock of foreign goods. Most of these wares are mundane, but all have been deemed illegal. Bozai has survived decades of inspections thanks to his calm, friendly demeanor, but a recent visit from Faundi the guard has rattled him.

**Talking to Bozai**. The players would see Faundi exiting the shop as they enter. If questioned, Bozai plays down the inspection, but a character who succeeds on a DC 16 Wisdom (Insight) check suspects he's lying. A character who succeeds on a DC 16 Charisma (Persuasion) check can get Bozai to reveal his illegal dealings. Once Bozai feels he can trust the characters - or is coerced - he reveals the following information:
* Bozai smuggles luxuries and other contraband from outside Kingdoms such as Calatia and Hytopia.
* His smuggling business is dwindling, as his contacts believe there's no money to be made in this isolated area.
* Bozai recently received a strange artifact from a treasure hunter. He knows the artifact is somehow magical, but hasn't been able to sell it or even have it identified due to the guard's increased interest in the shop.
Additionally, Bozai will show the characters his secret room if he thinks they're interested in buying contraband.

**Investigating the Shop**. A character who inspects the goods piled in Bozai's shop and succeeds on a DC 18 Intelligence (Investigation) check notes that the thick rugs hanging at the back of the shop have been moved more often than the goods around them. If these display rugs are moved, the door to the hidden chamber is revealed. Proceed to Scene 2.

### Scene 2: Backroom Thieves

Whether Bozai shows the characters his shop's secret room willingly or they find it themselves, there's a surprise waiting inside. Even if the characters don't seek out the room, the sound of something shattering inside reveals the room before they leave.

Two Yiga Footsolders are in the room, after squeezing through a window in the secret room that's disguised from the outside. They've riffled through the space and found not just the artifact they've been searching for, but also a *carpet of flying* that Bozai has been holding onto. The rug merchant foolishly scribed the rug's command word, "baalaa", on the carpet's tag. Read the following text when the characters enter the secret room:

>This chamber's shelves sag under crates and curios. On the far wall, a narrow window opens into a cluttered alley beyond. Just outside, two figures wearing menacing scarlet outfits with white masks kneel on a flying carpet, one holding an ornate artifact. They laugh as the carpet shoots down the alley.

### Scene 3: Bazaar Chase

As the two masked thieves soar away on the carpet, the characters can give chase. Give the characters a moment to spring into action and swiftly come up with their own ways to fly after the thieves. If they don't have a method of flying, Bozai produces another *carpet of flying* and loans it to the characters. He is vocal about wanting both carpets and the artifact back. Each *carpet of flying* from Bozai's shop measure 4 feet by 6 feet, has a capacity of 400 pounds, and has a flying speed of 60 feet. It can accommodate two Medium or Small creatures.

After rolling initiative, each participant in the chase can take one action and move on its turn. The Yiga begin 120 feet ahead of the pursuers and 15 feet off the ground. Track the distance between the Yiga and the party, and designate the pursuer closest to the thieves as the lead (which might change from round to round).

**Dashing**. During the chase, a participant can freely use the Dash action a number of times equal to 3+ its Constitution modifier. Each additional Dash action it takes during the chase requires the creature to succeed on a Constitution check (with a DC starting at 10 an increasing by one each time it's attempted) at the end of its turn or gain 1 level of exhaustion. Unless it can move in some other manner, like riding a *carpet of flying*, a creature drops out of the chase if its exhaustion reaches level 5, since its speed becomes 0. A creature can remove the levels of exhaustion it gained during the chase by finishing a short or long rest. The Dash action cannot make a *carpet of flying* move faster.

**Spells and Attacks**. A chase participant can make attacks and cast spells against other creatures within range. Apply the normal rules for cover, terrain, and so on to the attacks and spells. Chase participants can't normally make opportunity attacks against each other, since they are all assumed to be moving in the same direction at the same time.

**Chase Complications**. Complications occur randomly during the chase for both the Yiga and the characters pursuing them. Each participant in the chase rolls on the Bazaar Chase Complications table at the end of its turn. If a complication occurs, it affects the next chase participant in the initiative order, not the participant who rolled the dice. The participant who rolled the die or the participant affected by the complication can spend inspiration to negate the complication. Unless otherwise noted, the events on the Bazaar Complications table affect a single creature; this should be the one controlling a *carpet of flying* if multiple creatures are on such a magic item.

**Ending the Chase**. The chase ends when either side gives up the chase, when the Yiga escape, or when the pursuers are close enough to catch the thieves. If neither side gives up the chase, one Yiga makes a Dexterity (Stealth) check at the end of each round in which the Yiga get out of the lead pursuer's sight, after every participant in the chase has taken its turn. The check's result is compared to the passive Wisdom (Perception) scores of the pursuers. If the result of the Yiga's check is greater than the highest Wisdom (Perception) score, the Yiga escape. If not, the chase continues for another round.

### Conclusion

If the characters catch the Yiga, then they can attempt to question them. They'll get one free question in before the Yiga attack, unless prevented from doing so somehow. If able, the Yiga will fight to the death, or they may reveal any of the following information:
* The artifact is powerful magic that is needed by one of their leaders, known only as Monk Yiga.
* Their hideout is in the Depths of Hyrule, inaccessible to all except the most capable of thieves and ninjas.

If the players are able to return the artifact to Bozai, he will offer them 100 rp as a thank you payment. He will insist on taking back any *carpet(s) of flying* though.

### Random Tables

| d10 | Complication                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| --- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1   | A taught line of pennants stretches across your path. You must succeed on a DC 10 Dexterity saving throw, or fall 2d4 x 5 feet, taking 1d6 bludgeoning damage per 10 feet fallen and landing prone.                                                                              |
| 2   | Choose to fly around or through a cap between bazaar stalls. If you fly around, the area counts as 10 feet of difficult terrain. If you fly through the gap, you must succeed on a DC 16 Dexterity saving throw, or you break through the stall and take 4d6 bludgeoning damage. |
| 3   | An overturned crate releases cuccos and a cloud of feathers into the air. Make a DC 16 Wisdom (Survival) check to try and stay on course through the distractions. On a failed check, the obstacle counts as 10 feet of difficult terrain.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| 4   | You pass through an arc of knives thrown by performing food vendors (+3 to hit, 4d4 + 1 piercing damage on a hit).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| 5   | You fly through hanging textiles. Make a DC 14 Dexterity (Acrobatics) check to navigate the fabric. On a failed check, the path counts as 10 feet of difficult terrain.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| 6   | Spices from an overturned stand fill the air. You must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw, or you are blinded until the end of your turn. Roll on this table again, and immediately experience that complication. You can avoid rolling on the table again if you don't move this turn.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| 7 - 10 |      No complication.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
^bazaar-chase-complications

### References

* Shadow of the Sun from Journey Through the Radiant Citadel (pg. 153-155)
