#adventure [[Gerudo Region]] [[Tera]]

### Background

The Great Fairy of Magic can be found on the edge of the desert northeast of Kara Kara Bazaar. The Great Fairy's flower hasn't been open in recent memory, and there's a rumor that a piece of the fairy's power can be found nearby (which may open the flower up). Anyone giving the hook may recommend the party start their search for the Fairy Fragment in the oasis in the southern end of the desert.

Location:: [[Kara Kara Bazaar]], Southern Oasis
Location_General:: [[Gerudo Desert]], [[Gerudo Region]]
Reward:: [[Fairy Fragment (White)]]
Type:: Main

### Hook(s)

The players can either happen upon her flower, where the Great Fairy can be heard through the flower, or a random NPC in Gerudo can mention her.

### Synopsis

- There are four fairy fountains around Hyrule, each of which can grant benefits to certain classes of players. Tera can improve a Researcher or Sage.
- Each of them requires a small fetch quest prior to opening their flower bud up, which usually consists of an overworld miniboss fight. Tera's White Fairy Fragment is being held by a Molduga at Southern Oasis.

### Scene 1: The Fairy Fragment

When the party arrives at the Southern Oasis, they hear the rumbling of a **Molduga** (CR 7). They can get in a surprise round if the monster doesn't detect them on approach. When the Molduga drops, a White Fairy Fragment is found left behind.

`encounter: 1: Molduga`

### Scene 2: The Fairy Fountain

At the Fairy Fountain in the desert, the party will need to present the White Fairy Fragment for the flower to open. Tera then explains that she is the Great Fairy of Magic, and can give a unique gift to a single Researcher or Sage.
 - **Researcher:** Increase Intelligence score by 2 (gaining Magic points as well)
 - **Sage:** Increase Wisdom score by 2 (gaining Magic points as well)

The fairy will enchant the relic, and as long as a player character carries it (requires attunement) they get the specific benefit.

### References
