#adventure [[Gerudo Desert]]

### Background

A Sheikah Shrine has risen in the Gerudo Desert - no one knows why, but everyone suspects the Yiga may be responsible in some way. The Shrine is specifically located in Teruma Dunes, in the northwest Gerudo Desert, west of Gerudo Town.

Location:: Teruma Dunes
Location_General:: [[Gerudo Desert]], [[Gerudo Region]]
Reward:: [[Amber Relic]]
Type:: Side

### Hook(s)


### Synopsis

- 

### Scene 1: Shrine of Shifting Sands

The theme of this temple revolves around raising (and lowering, but progression involves raising) sand to change the layout of the temple and access new areas. Crystal switches are used to raise (teal when activated) and lower (orange when actived) the sand level.

Sand Levels will be referenced with a number (e.g. SL0 or SL3) throughout this temple. The starting Sand Level is 0, and many areas will only be accessible at a certain Sand Level or range of Levels (e.g. SL0-1) - such as the boss chamber only being accesible at Sand Level 3.

#### S1. Central Chamber (accessible SL0-3)

**SL0:**
>You step off the elevator into a large central chamber. The walls are made of an impossibly smooth yet intricately detailed stone, and the floors are covered in sand. There is little of interest in this room but a small square raised platform in the corner, and a more elevated ledge leading to a doorway in the north. There are doorways on your level to the east and south both with stairs leading down.

**SL2:**
>The small square raised platform in the corner is now accessible, and you can see a cystal switch atop it. The only accessible doorway is to the east, as the elevated ledge is still too high to reach.

**SL3:**
>The room is almost entirely filled with sand, and the only visible exit is a doorway to the north.

The walls here are impossible to climb due to how smooth they are (do not allow a check). There is no way to get to the elevated platform or ledge until the sand level is raised in other areas of the shrine. The platform is accessible at SL2, while the ledge is only accesible at SL3.

#### S2. Sand Switch (accessible SL0-2)

**SL0:**
>This is another large chamber with the same walls and sandy floor. There is a raised platform in the center of the room that's slightly lower than the last one (but not accessible due to the totally smooth walls), and you can just make out a crystal switch on top of it. There are stairs leading down to the west and stairs leading up to the east.

**SL1:**
>With the sand level raised, the cystal switch you saw earlier is now accessible. The room to the west is no longer visible (and filled with sand) but there is a room to the east that you can see clearly.

**SL2:**
>The room is simply filled with sand, and the only way out is a direct path to the north.

The switch here is accessible at SL1, and activating it (hitting with a sword or something) would lower the sand level to SL0.

#### S3. Golden Skulltula (accessible SL0)

>Running north-south along the middle of this room is a long pit which appears to be bottomless. There is a seemingly endless wall of sand to the north, and while the sand looks like it's being pulled into the pit, it falls continually falls into nothingness. In the middle of the pit is a 5' square platform with a large golden Skulltula statue. The skulltula is hanging upside down from the ceiling, and is holding a single thread of teal silk between its front legs.

When the thread is broken, the pit closes and the sandfall causes the sand level of the room to raise (to SL1). The party can easily exit the room in time, but the room will become inaccessible after.

#### S4. Armos Chamber (accessible SL0-1)

>This room contains several inanimate statues. Through the line of statues, you can barely make out a crystal switch at the back of the room.

This room simply contains 1d6 **Armos** Statues (CR 3) and another switch to raise the Sand Level (to SL2). The Armos remain motionless until attacked or otherwise touched by the players (assume they're touched if the players try to move through the line to access the crystal switch). Once one Armos is activated, they will all become active and attack.

`encounter: 1d6: Armos Statue`

Once the Armos are defeated and the switch activated, the players will have plenty of time to exit the room before the sand level is totally raised, but won't be able to access this room again (until the sand level is lowered).

#### S5. Medusa Statue (accessible SL0-2)

>Running north-south along the middle of this room is a long pit which appears to be bottomless. In the middle of the pit is a 5' square platform with a large stone statue of a Gerudo Warrior. She has her hand on a lever, and is staring directly at a stone statue on the north wall. The statue depicts the bottom half of a face, with fangs beared and tongue sticking out, and an open mouth out of which fireballs are erupting.

The statue on the wall is a Medusa statue trap. Every round (every time the players take an action), randomly select a player and roll to hit (unmodified). On a hit, the player takes 2d6 Fire damage, and is petrified. Make a point of the fact that the statue version of the player is now staring intently at the statue on the wall.

The lever is locked in place due to the Gerudo holding it firmly. If the players block the line of sight between the Gerudo and the Medusa (such as putting a cloth over her eyes) then she turns to sand and crumbles, causing the lever to unlock. This causes a cage that was over a now visible crystal switch near the east wall to fall, enabling the players to hit it. Hitting the switch will raise the Sand Level (to SL3), but the players will have plenty of time to exit the room back into S1.

#### S5. Molduga Battle

The instant the players enter the entirely sand-filled room, it shakes a bit as a large monster erupts from the sand - a **Molduga** (CR 7).

`encounter: 1: Molduga`

### Conclusion

Once the Molduga is defeated, it drops a random number of rupees (7d6x10), as well as an **Amber Relic**. When these treasures are collected, the room starts to fill with sand. A successful DC 12 Perception check will reveal the presence of a hole in the wall which will allow them to escape safely. Once they're back above ground, the Shrine itself sinks back into the sand, never to be seen again.

### References
