#adventure #dungeon [[Gerudo Region]]

Players can enter this dungeon from either the Seven Heroines statues in Gerudo Desert (most likely) or the Eighth Heroine statue in Gerudo Highlands.

```ad-info
title: Area Features
 - ***Ceilings***. The ceilings are made of sandstone and rise 20 ft. above the floor unless otherwise stated.
 - ***Floors and Walls.*** The walls are made of sandstone, and the floors are sand, dirt, or stone.
 - ***Doors.*** The few doors which exist are made of stone.
 - ***Lighting.*** The whole area is normally lit with lanterns.
 - ***Unusual Features.*** If entering at the Seven Heroines, players will start A1 and progress though, exiting from A0 at the Eighth Heroine statue. If entering at the Eighth Heroine, players will start at A0, move to A1 and then progress through, exiting at the Seven Heroines. Each room in this dungeon is based on the qualities attributed to the heroines.
```

### Scene 1: Gaining Access

This dungeon can be accessed at either the Eighth Heroine statue in the Gerudo Highlands or from the Seven Heroines in the eastern Gerudo Desert.

If entering from the Eighth Heroine, players will start in a treasure room and the exit will lead to A1. If players started at the Seven Heroines, then that treasure room will be the last room after the boss fight and they will exit at the Eighth Heroine statue.

### Scene 2: Inside the Shrine

#### A1. Skill ( : )

>You enter a small chamber filled with sand, with a statue in the center. The statue is dressed like a warrior, its eyes are closed, and it's holding a glowing hourglass. There is no visible door save for the one you entered from, and a wall of falling sand covers the far side.

A DC 10 Investigation check will reveal the presence of symbols composed of two circles (hourglasses on their side) on the walls, but they look different from the sphere outside because they're horizontal instead of vertical. If the players attempt to interact with the sand wall, they will not be able to feel anything besides continually falling sand. In order to exit the room, they will need to either let the hourglass run out (which takes 15 minutes, or three rounds) or turn the hourglass on its side so the sand no longer falls. This will cause the wall of sand to stop falling as well, exposing a door.

#### A2. Endurance ( * )

>You enter a slightly larger room with a statue in the center. This statue, which has open eyes and is made purely of rock, is holding an hourglass in one hand and what looks like a raised button in the other. There is a glowing circle on the floor directly in front of the statue, and a door visible on the far side.

A *detect magic* spell cast on the statue or glowing circle reveals a strong aura of conjuration and abjuration magic. When someone touches the statue or hourglass, or tries to exit the far door, the encounter begins. The doors seal shut with walls of force, trapping the players inside. The hourglass fills with glowing sand and starts draining - it appears that the hourglass will run out in 30 seconds.

Pressing the button on the pedestal flips the hourglass and resets it to 30 seconds again, as well as summons a monster in the summoning circle. Every time that the hourglass is reset, new monsters spawn, gradually increasing the difficulty of the fights. If the players let the hourglass run out without touching the button, you can either end the encounter, or have the statue come to life as a **Darknut Unarmored** (CR 8).

If the players are still healthy with lots of resources, let them finish killing the existing monsters. If they’re just about dead, have the monsters unsummon. When the last monster is gone, the wall of force blocking the doors dissipates and the players can move on. A chest summons in the silver circle, containing a Silver Rupee.

| Round | Encounter |
|:----:|:-------------|
|  1   | 1d6 **Fire Keese** |
|  2   | 1d3 **Fire Lizalfos** |
|  3   | 1d3 **Gold Bokoblins** |
|  4   | 1d3 **Fire Wizzrobes** |
|  5   | 1d3 **Poes** |

#### A3. Flight ( ^ )

>You enter a room that appears almost entirely empty, with only the wind between you and a statue in the center. This statue has wings, is holding an hourglass in one hand, and is looking up.

A DC 15 Perception check will reveal the presence of a chest on the ceiling - DC 20 will reveal the door on the ceiling as well.
If a player picks up the hourglass and flips it over, the room turns upside down! With the new perspective, a chest can be seen on what is now the floor, containing a key. A locked door can also be seen across the room.

#### A4. Motion ( ʃ )

>You enter an expansive room where the floor is sand and a slight breeze can be felt, as if you're outside. In the distance you can see a shadowy figure in the middle of a small watery oasis, next to a statue holding a spear.

As they approach the center of the room, they see a shadowy figure in a yellow tunic, the **Hero of Light**.

`encounter: 1: Hero of Light`

Once the Hero is defeated, a chest magically appears containing **Hover Boots**.

#### A5. Knowledge ( o )

>You approach a statue with one hand holding an hourglass and the other hand to her ear. On a plaque at her feet, embossed with a circle symbol, you find the following: "Only the purest sand slips through the glass. Confess what weighs on you most to pass."

The idea is that one by one the party must speak aloud (or whisper) to the statue their character's darkest secret/regret (Make sure you as the DM at least knows this). Once everyone has shared, the way beyond opens and they can continue on through the temple.

#### A6. Gentleness ( ' )

>This is a small, mostly empty, room. There is a statue in the center, much shorter than the others, with hands clasped in front of her and looking down (as if praying or sleeping). There are a number of small cots scattered about, and both doors can be secured.

Just a chance for the party to rest before the boss fight.

#### A7. Spirit ( || )

>You enter a large chamber that looks like it was once a prison. There are chains hanging from every wall and the only other door across the way is covered in bars and locks. Waiting in the middle of the room is a devlish figure pulsing with purple energy.

Unnerving Mask embodies each characters' deepest regrets that were revealed in A5.

`encounter: 1: Malicious Chain Devil` ?

### Conclusion

The large chest in the treasure room houses a **Bow of Yiga Power**. There can also be any amount of random rupees and other gems.

### References
