---
Location: Amber Relic Chamber
Location_General: Underground
Theme-Mechanic: Magnetism and Metal
Recommended-Order: 10
Type: Dungeon
---

#adventure #dungeon [[Amber Relic Chamber]]

The Metal Medallion will be obtained here after a dungeon using the theme of magnetism. It takes inspiration from the Unicorn's Cave in Oracle of Ages, including the "S" stones, Magnetic Blocks, and Magnetic Glove (which serves as the dungeon item).

```ad-info
title: Area Features
 - ***Ceilings***. The ceilings are hewn from rock and rise 10 feet above the floor unless otherwise stated.
 - ***Floors and Walls.*** The walls and floors are composed of rock.
 - ***Doors.*** The few doors which exist are made of metal or rock.
 - ***Lighting.*** The whole area is dimly lit with small lanterns.
```

### Scene 1: Amber Relic Chamber

The dungeon can only be accessed from behind the Amber Relic door, so players will need to hunt down the Amber Relic in order to get to the dungeon.

### Scene 2: Inside the Dungeon

#### M1. The Obelisk in the Entryway

>A large black obelisk takes up the center of the room, dotted with dozens of pieces of metal scattered around it. A door on the far side of the room appears to lead deeper into the cave.

This obelisk is normally the focal point of a strong metallic field, but the field is down currently do to the mechanism in M2 being disassembled. If players restore the mechanism, then the power would be returned to this object and the magnetic field restored, asking as described below (depending on players' distance to it).

When active, the obelisk acts like this:
* Within 50 feet of the obelisk, small metal objects like coins, necklaces, buckles, etc. are flung toward the obelisk. Unattended objects receive no save. If an object is attended, then the user can make a DC 12 Strength check to retain possession each round.
* Within 25 feet of the obelisk, all metal objects weighing under 10 lbs are pulled toward the structure. A DC 12 Strength check at -2 is needed to retain possession each round.
* Within 10 feet, the pull becomes the strongest. Any metal object under 50 lbs is pulled toward it. All DC 12 Strength checks to maintain possession are done at a -6. Adventurers wearing metal armor might be flung onto the obelisk while still in their armor.
* Removing an object or yourself from the obelisk requires a DC 12 Strength check at -8.

#### M2. Metal Gear Assembly

>You step into a large room which contains some sort of crank-driven mechanism, that appears to be non-functional and missing pieces. Several large metal gears are scattered around the room, and a shuttered door is on the far side of the room.

The players find a broken mechanism that requires several metal gears to be fitted into place. They can use the **Power Gloves** (or magic) to lift and position the gears correctly, restoring the mechanism's functionality. Then the mechanism needs to be jump started with a crank of the lever to start the gears moving, required a successful DC 12 Strength (Athletics) check. Little do the players know that this mechanism is responsible for the magnetic field that powers several other aspects of the dungeon, including the Obelisk in the previous area and the Forcefield in the next area.

#### M3. Magnetic Forcefield

The players encounter a room protected by a magnetic forcefield, but with many large metal crates scattered about. The players can lift and position large metal objects (using the Power Gloves or magic) within the forcefield to disrupt the magnetic field and disable the barrier. Correct placement of the objects requires a DC 14 Arcana check to align them with the forcefield. Two objects need to be correctly positioned in order to disable the field, allowing access to the door on the far side.

#### M4. Miniboss Chamber

>You enter a dimly lit room with nothing visible but a swordsman clad in white in the center. As you move closer, the swordsman lunges toward you!

Miniboss:: [[Hero of Metal]]
Miniboss-Treasure:: [[Magnetic Glove]]

The swordsman in white immediately attacks. Once he's defeated, a chest magically appears containing the treasure, but the door doesn't open. In order to get out of the room, a player will need to don the **Magnetic Glove** and move a small magnetic block near the door in order to complete a circuit and cause the door to open.

#### M5. Polarity Platforms

The players encounter a room with magnetic platforms that repel each other. By activating switches with the Magnetic Glove, they can reverse the polarity of the platforms, allowing them to create bridges and reach new areas.

#### M6. Building Bridges

The players encounter a large gap with metal platforms scattered on both sides. They must use the Magnetic Glove to attract and manipulate the metal blocks, building a bridge across the gap to progress.

#### M7. Magnetic Maze Box

The players need to retrieve a metal key trapped within a gigantic floating maze box. The players can eventually get the key by using the Magnetic Glove to move it through the twists and turns of the maze.

This could take the form of a physical puzzle made with real magnets that the players need to move around.

#### M8. Massive Magnetic Pit

This room consists of a large pit, with several spinning Magnetic Blocks floating above it. Also within the room is a Crystal Switch that reverses the direction the Magnetic Blocks spin. Players must use the Magnetic Gloves to "stick" himself to the blocks and cross the chasm to continue further into the dungeon.

#### M9. Boss Chamber

When the boss is defeated, it disappears into a cloud of purple smoke and leaves behind the treasure, as well as a white medallion with a swirl symbol on it. And the party levels up!

Boss:: [[Monk Yiga]]
Boss-Treasure:: [[Hawkeye]]
Reward:: [[Sage Medallion]] (Metal)

### Conclusion


### References
