---
Location: Dusk Relic Chamber
Location_General: Underground
Theme-Mechanic: Light and Darkness
Recommended-Order: 11
Type: Dungeon
---

#adventure #dungeon [[Dusk Relic Chamber]]

The Shadow Medallion will be obtained here after a dungeon using the theme of light and darkness. This dungeon is inspired by Wind Waker's Earth Temple as well as the Shadow Temple from Ocarina of Time.

```ad-info
title: Area Features
 - ***Ceilings***. The ceilings are hewn from rock and rise 10 feet above the floor unless otherwise stated.
 - ***Floors and Walls.*** The walls and floors are composed of rock.
 - ***Doors.*** The few doors which exist are made of metal or rock.
 - ***Lighting.*** The whole area is dimly lit with small lanterns.
```

### Dusk Relic Chamber

The dungeon can only be accessed from behind the Dusk Relic door, so players will need to hunt down the Dusk Relic in order to get to the dungeon.

### Inside the Dungeon

#### S1. Central Orb Chamber

>You step into a shadowy cave and are immediately unable to see in front of your face, as if bathed in magical darkness. Even so, you swear you see figures in the darkness, and can hear faint laughter in the distance. The only spot of light is from a magical green flame inside of a glass sphere on a pedestal. The dim light emanating from it reveals open paths to the east and west, and a shuttered door to the north

A magical flame inside a glass sphere must be carried to the end of the dungeon in order to activate a switch. If the player carrying the sphere is frightened, then they drop it (unless they have some solution to keep the sphere safe), causing the glass sphere to fall and shatter and snuffing out the magical flame. Any player within 10 feet of the orb takes 2 (1d4) lightning damage when the sphere shatters. Returning to the orb chamber reveals that a new orb has dropped from the ceiling and is sitting on the pedestal.

The path east leads to S2, west leads to S3, and the shuttered door (which opens once S2 and S3 are complete) leads to S4.

#### S2. First Puzzle Chamber

>Four subtlely glowing square tiles can be seen on the floor of this room. There doesn't appear to be anything else in the room except for a low platform that you can barely see in the darkness.

Each time a player steps on a square, it lights up brighter. Stepping on all four squares (in no particular order) causes a chest to appear on the platform, containing 50 rupees. Opening the chest bathes the room in dim light, revealing the door out of the room.

#### S3. Phantom Switches

The players face a series of hidden switches concealed within the shadows. All of them will need to be flipped in sequence in order to open the way to the next room. In order to see, players will either need darkvision or magic to create light. A DC 15 Investigation check can be made to locate a switch, but this is made at disadvantage if they player can't see. For every check that fails, a Small Poe emerges from the shadows.

`encounter: 1: Small Poe`

#### S4. Miniboss Chamber

>You enter a shadowy room with nothing visible but a swordsman clad in purple in the center. As you move closer, the swordsman lunges toward you!

Miniboss:: [[Hero of Shadow]]
Miniboss-Treasure:: [[Magic Cape]]

The swordsman in purple immediately attacks. Once he's defeated, a chest magically appears containing the treasure. But if any player approaches the door, it immediately closes when they're within 5 feet. A player needs to don the **Magic Cape** and walk through the door while invisible (alternatively a player could use magic to do this), which allows them to get past the door to the next room. On the other side of the door is a switch that keeps the door open once pressed.

#### S5. Phantasmal Pursuit

The players are chased by wallmasters that can most easily be avoided by the power of invisibility granted by the Magic Cape. They must navigate through a maze-like room, using the cape to evade the monsters and find their way to safety. If they're captured by a wallmaster, they're brought back to the start of the maze (not the start of the dungeon).

`encounter: 1: Wallmaster`

#### S6. Halls of Silence

The players enter a room where sound is amplified, making even the slightest noise dangerous. Wearing the Magic Cape grants them silence, allowing them to move without making a sound and avoiding the attention of lurking enemies or traps.

`encounter: 1: Blue Bubble`

#### S7. Second Puzzle Chamber

>Nine subtlely glowing square tiles, in a three by three grid, can be seen on the floor of this room. There is a locked door on the opposite side of the room from where you're standing.

A 3x3 stone grid of squares is present in the middle of the room. Each time you step onto a square it lights up, and your goal is to light all the tiles. But a shadowy creatures follows you from two steps behind, and when it steps on a square it goes dark (and the players hear a faint laugh).

#### S8. Catacombs

Falling graves, with Dex save to avoid (like WW's Earth Temple), and Redeads inside.

`encounter: 1: Redead`

#### S9. Boss Chamber

In order to gain access to this chamber, the orb from area S1 has to be placed onto a pedestal outside of the door, which causes the shutter over the door to open.

When the boss is defeated, it disappears into a cloud of purple smoke and leaves behind the treasure, as well as a purple medallion with a triangle and dots symbol on it. And the party levels up!

Boss:: [[Mighty Yiga]]
Boss-Treasure:: [[Demise's Darkness]]
Reward:: [[Sage Medallion]] (Shadow)

### Conclusion


### References

* Wind Waker's Earth Temple and Ocarina of Time's Shadow Temple.
