#adventure #completed [[Cathedral of the Silver Flame]] [[Jaela Daran]] [[Defender]] [[Seltern Obranch]]

The Cathedral was very recently attacked by the Tarnished Templar, who had mobilized his forces to attempt to get to the Silver Flame. The Templars were able to stop him, and the ministers and friars who weren’t killed snuck away to the Catacombs below the Cathedral. The Templar got away, and was seen running toward Scions Sound in the north.

**C1. Grand Foyer**

> The interior of the Cathedral, with its silver-inlaid black marble floors and pillars, seems a perfect marriage of majesty and decadence. This large entry foyer has three doors leading into separate wings dedicated to the three orders of the Church. Overturned furniture seems to indicate that a skirmish happened here recently.

Right: Templars’ Wing (C2), Center: Ministers’ Wing (C3), Left: Friars’ Wing (C4)

**C2. Templars’ Wing**

This area contains two survivors, the leader of the Templars and a single soldier. The leader is a warforged named Defender with the title of Knight Commander, who will refuse to leave the Templars’ Wing no matter what. A door to the right leads to an outdoor training grounds, while the primary door north leads to the Chamber of the Flame (C5).

**Survivor**. The soldier is a traumatized male human templar with the title of Companion-At-Arms named Trevick Thantorme. The other templars here ran downstairs when the attack started, to protect the other members of the church. The panicked Trevick remained here, and now sits curled up and whispering to himself that everything’s going to be okay.

A successful DC 10 Charisma (Persuasion) check restores Trevick’s courage, as does a calm emotions spell or similar effect. If the characters allow it, Trevick vows to accompany them on their hunt for the Tarnished Templar. However, the first time he takes any damage, he curls up in a ball again, requiring another check made as an action to get him back in the fight.

**C3. Ministers’ Wing**

**Private Chapels**. These areas can be curtained off for small private ceremonies. Each of these chapels contains the bodies of 1d6 dead ministers. If the dead bodies are touched or interacted with in any way, Crimson Shades rise from each of the bodies (note that the Shades appear to want to move toward the Chamber of the Flame rather than toward the party). After the battle, they discover a Ring of Mind Shielding on one of the bodies.

[https://critterdb.com:443/#/creature/view/62bb1a9a629cac032a854e41](https://critterdb.com/#/creature/view/62bb1a9a629cac032a854e41)

[https://www.dndbeyond.com/magic-items/4725-ring-of-mind-shielding](https://www.dndbeyond.com/magic-items/4725-ring-of-mind-shielding)

**Survivor.** Seltern Obranch, a Cleric minister of the Silver Flame, was here when the attack took place. After being knocked down in the melee, he feigned his demise to trick his attackers. If the characters search the bodies (after any battle), they notice Seltern open his eyes.

If the characters treat him kindly, Seltern tells of how a Tiefling Templar is crimson armor assaulted the Cathedral. He knows nothing of the current state of the place, but can tell the characters that all in the Cathedral knew to flee to the main catacombs (area C9) in case of an attack. He can be convinced to come with the party with a successful DC 15 Persuasion check (or can just be asked about how to access the catacombs with a DC 10 Persuasion check).

The only door north leads to area C5.

**C4. Friars’ Wing**

**Private Chapels**. These areas can be curtained off for small private ceremonies. Each of these chapels contains the bodies of 1d6 - 1 dead friars. If the dead bodies are touched or interacted with in any way, crimson shades rise from each of the bodies. After the battle, they discover a Ring of Mind Shielding on one of the bodies (if not found previously).

The only door north leads to area C5.

**C5. Chamber of the Flame**

> You enter a wide ornate room. At the center of it, contained in the middle of a brilliant circular mosaic of floor tiles, rises the Silver Flame itself. A small altar in front of the Flame fountain separates it from the rest of the room. Stairwells on each side of the room appear to go upstairs.

**Activating the Altar**. A creature that touches the altar and succeeds on a DC 15 Charisma (Religion) check regains all its hit points. This check can be attempted only once for any creature. Though the power of the altar works for any creature, it is specifically attuned to those dedicated to the Silver Flame. Clerics and Paladins of the Silver Flame have advantage on the check.

**Secret Door.** Any character who searches the altar and succeeds on a DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check (with advantage if Seltern from C3 is with the party or told them how to access it) detects a large secret panel in the altar. The panel opens easily, revealing a concealed staircase descending into the central portion of the catacombs level.

**C6. Balcony**

> Situated atop this balcony is a magnificent pipe organ. Its ivory keys practically glow, even as its ebony keys seem to absorb all light.

The balcony looks out over area C5. Any character who sits down at the pipe organ can feel that it is enchanted with powerful magic, and a *detect magic* spell reveals an aura of enchantment magic around it.

A character who plays the organ and succeeds on a DC 15 Charisma (Performance) check can play a powerful song that resonates throughout the cathedral. This song grants a bonus die, a d8, to every other player character who can hear it. A character can receive this benefit only once, and the d8 can be added to one attack roll, ability check, or saving throw made by the character in the next 24 hours.

If the Charisma (Performance) check fails by 5 or more, a screeching, hellish tune erupts from the organ instead. Inspired by this cacophony, each enemy the characters face in the next combat encounter in the cathedral has advantage on attack rolls during its first turn.

**C7. Council of Cardinals**

> A large ornate wooden table occupies the center of a warmly decorated room. Wood paneling and dark wallpaper cover the few walls that aren’t covered in floor-to-ceiling bookcases. A small fireplace on the far end of the room sheds dull light over the whole space. A few overturned chairs indicate that whoever left this room did so in a hurry.

A DC 12 Investigation check of the bookcases reveals a hidden *Potion of Greater Healing*.

**C8. Private Chambers (of the Keeper of the Flame)**

> This large bedroom is primarily taken up by the biggest four-poster bed you’ve ever seen. It’s decorated with delicate lace and other beautiful fabrics you don’t recognize, but you notice it’s empty and the bedding is messy, as if someone left in a hurry. A substantial wooden wardrobe and vanity line one of the other walls. In the far corner, atop a large padded bed. sleeps a brown-furred six-legged beast that resembles a dog, with the horns and teeth of a dragon.

The sleeping creature is Skaravojen, the gentle and loyal protector of the Keeper of the Flame. A DC 12 History or Religion check (with advantage by the Paladin) will reveal this information. If awoken, the creature won’t attack, but will whimper to the party as if to denote that it misses its master. A *Speak with Animals* spell (which can be cast by the cleric survivor in C3) will allow Skaravojen to tell the party that Jaela fled down to the Catacombs when the Tarnishsed Templar entered the Cathedral.

**C9. Catacombs**

> This large catacombs area is presently home to over a dozen frightened people. They cower behind sarcophagi and in alcoves, their eyes red and their cheeks stained with tears. Standing between two large fonts is a young woman, her black hair with light streaks is matted with sweat. With one arm, she clutches a leather-bound tome to her breast. In the other hand, she wields a ceremonial mace that would probably shatter if it struck anything harder than a pillow.

These catacombs house the remains of numerous worshipers and servants of the Silver Flame interred over the past century. Currently, more than a dozen frightened survivors of the attack on the Catedral are in hiding here, waiting for word of safety. Standing between them and death is the Keeper of the Silver Flame, Jaela Daran. There are a number of templars here as well. The book Jaela holds is the complete history of the church that she saved from the Council of Cardinals chamber before coming down here, and the mace is purely for show. Jaela or any of the Templars will tell the party that the Templar got away, and was seen running toward Scions Sound in the north.

**Holy Water Fonts.** The two wide fonts here contain water that has been blessed by priests, enough to fill fifty flasks with holy water. A successful DC 15 Intelligence (Investigation) check notices odd details in the stonework around one of the fonts, which covers a secret tunnel (area C10).

**C10. Escape Tunnel**
This tunnel, accessible from beneath one of the holy water fonts in area C9, leads from under the Cathedral catacombs and away from the Cathedral to an area just north of Flamekeep near Scions Sound.

[[1-03. The “Flame” Marker]]

[https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/bgdia/elturel-has-fallen#CathedralAssault](https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/bgdia/elturel-has-fallen#CathedralAssault)