#adventure #completed [[Stormhome]]

Windsor dreams while sleeping:

> *You find yourself sitting on a soft carpeted floor looking up at incredibly tall walls full of ornate wooden bookshelves stuffed with books. In your hand is a hard-cover tomb with the title "Of Storms and Ships". As you begin to read it, you nod off.*

> *You awaken in a well adorned cabin, which is rocking back and forth; the sounds of sloshing water all around you. You stand up and walk up a narrow staircase, finding yourself on the deck of a large galleon. On the upper deck in the near distance, you see the navigation wheel. As you move toward the wheel, you see the formerly clear sky quickly darken. Clouds roll in, lightning cracks in the distance, and rain begins to fall. By time you get your hands on the navigation wheel, the storm is in full force. You attempt to steer, but you're being thrown around as the ship rocks and the weather worsens. Suddenly a lightning bolt cracks on the other side of the ship and the sails quickly catch fire! Before you can get over there to put out the fire, you see a figure moving in the clouds toward the ship. A flying human-looking man breaks through the clouds and becomes fully visible in the distance, moving so quickly toward the ship that within seconds his face is glowing from the flaming sails. Just as you get a good look, and swear you see lightning in his eyes, a giant wave crests the ship and drags you overboard. The last thing you see before everything goes dark is a stone lighthouse giving off an eerie green glow.*

- The ship would be recognized as a House Lyrandar ship by any NPC asked. They would also know that House Lyrandar is headquartered at and basically runs the island of Stormhome.
- A DC 10 Perception check reveals that there was raindrop symbol identical to what’s on the map on the book that Windsor was reading in the dream.
- The lighthouse tower, located just south of Stormhome, could be remembered as something Windsor once read about with a DC 15 History check. DC 20 reveals the name as the Tower of Storms.

While traveling to Stormhome, ask Onme what she thinks about the events of the last few days, and allow whatever party conversation. It’s about 550 miles to Stormhome from Flamekeep, which should take about 11 days on horseback (use travel events generator and describe anything that happens along the way, including seeing a Tower in the distance if they stop near the Gray Wood).

When the party arrives in Stormhome, read the descriptions from the Location. They can also learn a couple of rumors from any random NPC:

A number of boats have gone missing while sailing out from the House Lyrandar docks, and the entire House is concerned. A gold bounty has been declared (400 gp) for anyone who can find the boats themselves (and especially their captains) or the cause of their disappearance.

An ancient tower near the Gray Wood on the Scion’s Sound, had long been abandoned, but has recently seen activity. Someone has been spotted entering and leaving the tower.

Stormhome has basic shops as needed, but not much else. House Lyrandar runs all of the docks for seaships and airships, but won’t let just anyone use them - the party will need to prove itself. One way to do this may be to discover the whereabouts of the lost boats/captains.

The Storm Mage came here to steal a boat from House Lyrandar to bring to the Iceflow River delta at Karrn Bay so that Detlev has access to water shipments. He has taken this boat to the Tower of Storms to hide out and lay low.

[[1-06. Tower of Storms]]