#adventure #completed [[Stormhome]] [[Mr Crab]]

[https://drive.google.com/file/d/1jbBeTyBu9Yc3p6Dl3Ivhaj5ZIhjw-oe_/view?usp=sharing](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1jbBeTyBu9Yc3p6Dl3Ivhaj5ZIhjw-oe_/view?usp=sharing)

The Tower of Storms, the former primary lighthouse for the docks at Stormhome, is built atop a barren 80-foot-high out-cropping of rock. At low tide, a narrow causeway extends from the shore to this outcropping, allowing easy access to the lighthouse. This causeway is 5 feet above sea level at low tide. At high tide, the causeway and the sandy beach are submerged under 5 feet of water.

Any time the party finishes exploring the tower, explores any one of the shipwrecks, or has a clear view of the intact House Lyrandar ship, roll a d6. On a 1 or 2, the Storm Mage can be seen on the deck of the Lyrandar ship. The party will need to find a way to get over to him.

**Arrival**. The Characters arrive at low ride, when the causeway leading to the lighthouse is above sea level.

> Below the high cliff that hugs the coastline, an outcropping of rock is nearly surrounded by water, with only a narrow causeway connecting it to the beach below. Atop this outcropping is a stone building surmounted by a lighthouse tower. An eerie green light pulses from this beacon, shining eastward out to sea. With each green pulse of light, you swear you hear the thump of slow-beating heart.

Characters searching for a safe way down the cliffs discover a staircase carved into a narrow fissure. They can follow these steps all the way down to the shore just east of area T1. Crawling along the beach as they arrive there is a **giant crab**.

The giant crab waves its claws at the characters, who can interpret this behavior as a friendly gesture with a successful DC 13 Wisdom (Animal Handling) check. A sea elf named Miraal used magic to imbue this creature with an Intelligence of 10 and the ability to speak Common. If the characters approach it peacefully, the crab says “Well met!” and tried to strike up a conversation, during which is imparts the following information:
- “Evil harpies nest atop the rocky outcropping”
- “There are sharks in these waters, but the one to fear is a mean old brute named Daggermaw. She’ll bite your head off and take pleasure in it.”
- “Five shipwrecks are spread around the rock beneath the lighthouse. I’ll fetch treasure from one of these wrecks if you help me”.

**Helping the Giant Crab.** If the characters agree to help the giant crab, it asks them to lay to rest its dead sea elf master, Miraal, who spirit haunts a nearby cave (area T1). If the characters do so, the crab thanks them and makes good on its promise, retrieving the *+1 weapon* from the west of the Star-Crossed Lover (see Shipwrecks table).

[https://roll20.net/compendium/dnd5e/Giant Crab](https://roll20.net/compendium/dnd5e/Giant%20Crab#content)

**T1. Haunted Cave**

Rough-hewn steps climb a 7-foot high tunnel that passes all the way through a 30-foot-tall natural pillar of rock. A damp, 8-foot-high cave encrusted with lichen is connected to this tunnel. The cave remains above sea level at high tide and is haunted by a banshee. The banshee, Miraal, manifests as a ghostly elf with gills, webbed hands, and webbed feet. It wears spectral garments that sway as though the undead is floating underwater. The banshee can’t travel farther than 100 feet from this cave, and thus can’t reach the lighthouse.

Miraal was a sea elf killed by Elias, who took her spellcasting focus - an opalescent conch - as a trophy. The banshee demands that the characters retrieve the conch and bring it to the cave, which will set her spirit to rest. It tried to kill the characters if they refuse, pursuing them as far as if can if they flee.

[https://www.dndbeyond.com/monsters/17089-banshee](https://www.dndbeyond.com/monsters/17089-banshee)

**T2. Plateau**

Rough-hewn stairs climb the eastern face of the rocky outcropping. The **harpies** in area T5 accost the characters as they climb these steps.

At the top of the stairs, a rocky plateau spreads out some 80 feet above the water. Wooden doors leading to area T3 have rusty iron hinges and handles, as well as decorative lightning bolts carved into them. All other doors in the Tower of Storms are of similar construction and ornamentation. None of the doors are locked.

**T3. Foyer**

This 15-foot-high room is empty. Through a dirty window in the north wall, the characters can see two ships’ masts jutting crookedly from the water.

**T4. Shrine**

> The walls of this fifteen-foot-high room are adorned with frescoes that depict ships sailing on both calm and choppy seas, all under the banner of House Lyrandar. Set into the west wall is a dirty, salt-encrusted window. A stone alter with lightning bolts carved into it stands against the south wall. A metal rod descends from the ceiling above the altar, splitting in two before it embeds itself in the stone.

Through the window, the characters can see the broken masts of several sunken shipwrecks jutting up from the water, along with an intact ship emblazoned with the logo of House Lyrandar.

**Altar**. The lightning rod on the roof (area T8) channels electricity into the altar, which converts that raw elemental power into magical energy. The first character to touch the altar gains the Charm of the Storm.

**Charm of the Storm**. You become charged with the power of the storm, to the extent that tiny sparks crackle in your eyes. You can cast *lightning bolt* (3rd-level) as an action. Once used three times, the charm vanishes from you.

Once the altar bestows this benefit, it can’t do so again until it recharges. The altar recharges when the lightning rod on the roof (area T8) is struck by three bolts of lightning from a storm and channels that energy down into the altar. Lightning from other sources don’t count.

**T5. Harpies’ Aerie**

A ledge enclosed by a 3-foot-high stone retaining wall serves as a nest for **harpies**. The harpies line their nest with rotting vegetation and the bones of previous meals, which they hunt up and down the coast. The number of harpies present equals the number of characters in the party. A harpy reduced to 10 hit points or fewer tries to fly away on its next turn, hoping to live to fight another day.

**Treasure**. Characters who search through the harpies’ nest find a *potion of water breathing*.

**T6. Lighthouse Interior**

A spiral staircase with an ornate stone railing climbs up the inside wall of this round stone tower. Each staircase landing is 20 feet higher than the one below it.

**T7. Lyrandar Captain**

This 15-foot-high room has two north-facing windows. A barnacle-encrusted chair stands against the south wall. Sitting in the chair is a man in captain’s uniform with a House Lyrandar patch. Resting in his lap is an opalescent conch taken from Miraal the sea elf (see area T1). Beneath his uniform, the captain has a hole in his chest where his heart used to be.

**Treasure**. Returning the opalescent conch to area T1 dismisses the banshee as its spirit is set free. The characters are then free to sell the conch (for 250 gp).

**T8. Rooftop and Lightning Rod**

From this vantage point, the characters can see the shattered masts of the five shipwrecks west of the lighthouse (areas T10 to T14), as well as the intact Lyrandar ship. Enclosing the rooftop is a 1-foot-high stone wall with a 2-foot-high iron railing atop it. A similar railing circles the walkway of the lighthouse beason area (T9), which is 20 feet above this area.

**Lightning Rod**. A 10-foot-tall, wrought iron lightning rod reaches toward the sky. During a thunderstorm, lightning strikes the rod at random intervals as determined by the DM, and is channeled through the roof to the altar in area T4. A creature that happens to be in contact with the lightning rod when it’s struck by a bolt of lightning must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw, taking 22 (4d10) lightning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a success.

**T9. Lighthouse Beacon**

The pinnacle of the lighthouse beacon is partly open to the elements and surrounded by a narrow walkway topped by an iron railing. Three open archways allow the beacon’s pulsing green light to spill westward over the sea. This light is so bright that any character who dares look directly at it is blinded for 1 minute.

The light originates from the Lyrandar captain’s still-beating heart, which floats in the air 5 feet off the ground. The heart has been magically enlarged to ten times its normal size, and is considered a small object with AC 10, 10 hit points, and immunity to psychic damage. The heart can’t be moved. If reduced to 0 hit points, the heart’s light goes out as the organ implodes and is destroyed, leaving no trace behind. Attacks made against the heart have disadvantage unless the attacker is immune to the blinded condition or the heart’s light is blotted out (by throwing a blanket over it, for example).

**T10-T14. Shipwrecks**

The crews aboard these five vessels perished when the beacon’s evil light compelled them to crash into the rocky outcropping. Fish have picked clean their skeletal remains, which lie scattered throughout the doomed vessels. Three sharks patrol the wreckage.

The Shipwrecks table below gives the name of each ship and the treasure that can be found within it. A character can spend an action searching the inside of a shipwreck. As part of that action, the character makes a DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check, finding the ship’s treasure on a success. Once a ship’s treasure is found, nothing else of value can be retrieved from that wreck.

If the item found is a locked chest, a character can use an action to search the wreck for the key to the chest, finding it with a successful DC 20 Wisdom (Perception) check. Conversely, a character can pick the chest’s sturdy lock with a successful DC 15 Dexterity check using thieves’ tools.

**Shipwrecks**

| Area | Ship Name | Treasure |
| --- | --- | --- |
| T10 | Star-Crossed Lover | +1 weapon of your choice (battleaxe, longbow, mace, or shortsword), found in the grip of a skeleton that used to be the ship’s captain |
| T11 | Sea Urchin | Stafish clinging to a locked chest filled with straw, within which is packed a delicate, 9-inch-tall, blue quartz statuette of a mermaid (75 gp) |
| T12 | Vainglory | Cloak of many fashions worn by the skeleton of a ship’s captain |
| T13 | Golden Gull | Locked chest containing 120 ep and six pearls (100 gp each) in a black silk pouch) |
| T14 | Orca | Locked chest that holds a fully charged wand of secrets and a leather-bound spellbook that contains the wizard spells blur, charm person, comprehend languages, hold person, mage armor, sleep, and spider climb |

**Exploring the Wrecks**. West of the Tower of Storms are five sunken shipwrecks (T10-T14), with only their masts visible. Character intent on searching the ships for treasure will need darkvision or magical light sources to see, as the wrecks are submerged in murky, 20-foot-deep water.

Characters atop the 80-foot-high lighthouse outcropping might try to climb down its slope to reach the water. The slope has abundant handholds but is wet, so that ascending or descending it requires a successful DC 10 Strength (Athletics) check. A character who fails the check slips and falls, landing in the water below and taking 1d6 bludgeoning damage per 10 feet fallen.

Three 15-foot-long hunter sharks glide among the wrecks. Daggermaw is the meanest and hungriest of the three, and it attacks characters without provocation after they finish searching two of the wrecks. If Daggermaw wounds a character, that character’s blood in the water attracts the other two sharks, which join the fray on Daggermaw’s next turn.

**T15. Lyrandar Ship**

Elias Stormbringer, the storm mage who has been wreaking havok on Stormhome, has taken up shelter on the ship he stole from House Lyrandar, off the southern coast of the Tower of Storms. His motivation in lighting up the lighthouse again after all these years was to draw more Lyrandar ships to their death.

[https://critterdb.com:443/#/creature/view/62a540950e4795ec3fe4422a](https://critterdb.com/#/creature/view/62a540950e4795ec3fe4422a)

At the end of the battle, a *Javelin of Lightning* is found on the ship (DC 12 Investigation).

Since House Lyrandar is more concerned about the whereabouts of the ships and the captains, rather than the return of the actual ships, the party could pretty easily keep the intact ship.

[[1-05. The “Water” Marker]]