#adventure #completed [[New Cyre]] [[Lei d'Cannith]]

[https://drive.google.com/file/d/1BZEWQfIxfElx1ehXolpQIbUVrG5x_EUo/view?usp=sharing](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1BZEWQfIxfElx1ehXolpQIbUVrG5x_EUo/view?usp=sharing)

The Seven Caves are carved into the base of Pargon’s Peak in the Seawell Mountain range south of New Cyre, around a narrow waterfall. A warforged named Echo has claimed these previously abandoned caves in order to mine Eberron dragonshards to be processed into residuum, the powdered form used as spell components, to send off to Karrnath. He is utilizing essentially slave labor from folks he kidnapped from New Cyre, and they’re being supervised by other warforged. Any time they encounter a supervisor warforged, without being sneaky, they’ll need to come up with a reason they’re there (or attack, I guess - use a Warforged Soldier stat block).

**Features**. The Seven Caves are hewn from solid rock and share the following features.

***Ceilings***. Ceiling throughout are 7 feet high and flat.

***Doors***. Normal doors are made of wood fitted with rusty iron handles and hinges. A locked door can be opened with a successful DC 10 Dexterity check using thieves’ tools. A locked door can be forced open as an action with a successful DC 15 Strength (Athletics) check. Secret doors are made of stone and blend in with the surrounding stonework. Finding a secret door requires a search of the wall and a successful DC 10 Wisdom (Perception) check.

***Light***. All caves are illuminated by hanging everbright lanterns attached to rope-and-pulley mechanisms that make it easy for the workers to lower the lanterns and work on them as needed.

**Arrival.** A stream leads the characters to a pool fed by a waterfall that tumbles down the mountainside.

> You follow a stream uphill to the base of the mountain, where waterfall erosion has carved out a natural concavity. The roaring waterfall creates a cloud of mist as it plunges into a shallow pool of water, within which rise two small islands covered with two-foot-tall red, green, and purple mushrooms. Several cave openings overlook the pool from rocky ledges twenty to thirty feet above, including one with a rough hewn footpath leading up to it. The mountain blocks most sunlight from reaching this place, but in the near distance there’s enough light to make out a strange-looking creature. The creature is covered in fur and on all fours, with a cloud of lightning crackling around its mouth.

Climbing to a cave requires a successful DC 13 Strength (Athletics) check. A narrow footpath ascends the northeast slope, making it an easy climb to that cave entrance without a check. The creature is a Wild Mange, which anyone who inquires and passes a DC 8 Nature or History check would recognize as some type of Gnoll. A DC 10 Perception check will reveal the presence of sparkling reddish crystalline powder in its fur. A DC 12 Stealth check would be needed to sneak past the Wild Mange’s passive perception, otherwise it attacks (from 60 feet away, taking the Dash action to close the gap on its first turn).

**G1. Misty Pool and Mushroom Islands**

The workers subsist on 2-foot-tall mushrooms that grow atop two small islands in the middle of this 3-foot-deep pool. The islands are perpetually shrouded in mist from the waterfall. The mushrooms come in three colors. Red mushrooms provide oil the workers and warforged use to lubricate the mining machinery. Green mushrooms are ground into flour and used to make a tasty green bread. Purple mushrooms are crushed and fermented to make mushroom wine, which tastes as good as it sounds.

**G2. Waterfall and Rope Bridge**

The waterfall plunges 60 feet, its mist lightly obscuring a 35-foot-long rope bridge firmly anchored to 20-foot-high-ledges. The bridge is difficult terrain and sags so that its midpoint is only 15 feet above the water. A creature that falls or jumps from the bridge takes no damage if it lands in the water, which is 5 feet deep in the area below the bridge. The bridge has AC 11, 30 hit points, and immunity to poison and psychic damage.

**G3. Dining Room**

This room contains several dining tables and chairs. A stout wooden cabinet against the east wall holds tin dishware and utensils.

**Treasure**. Hidden among the dishware, revealed with a DC 15 Perception check, is a *potion of fire breath*.

**G4. Kitchen**

Several unnamed workers and a supervisor are performing various tasks around the large kitchen space:

- A warforged supervisor uses a poker to stoke the fire of a hot iron stove standing against the east wall. He won’t notice the party unless they approach him or talk to one of the workers in the room.
- A human male worker uses a complicated press-like contraption to squeeze oil out of a big red mushroom and filter the liquid into four oil flasks.
- A human female worker stands atop a low table and uses a mechanical rolling pin contraption to kneed green bread dough. The severed caps of several big green mushrooms are set around her.
- A human male worker forms the dough into loaves of green bread, his tongue sticking out as he carefully shapes each loaf like a master sculptor.
- A human female worker teeters on a stool as she stuffs a big purple mushroom into a barrel, so that it can ferment and be turned into mushroom wine.

**G5. Pantry**

This room is piled high with small wooden crates. Each contains loaves of green mushroom bread and other foodstuffs.

**G6. Ancillary Mining Chamber**

Two natural stone alcoves in this room each contain a metal table on which sit a bucket containing a few blood-red crystals. A human worker in each alcove is holding a handheld drill and is actively drilling into the stone wall, totally engrossed in their work. A large warforged appears to be supervising them, and will question the party if he sees them and chastise anyone who speaks to anyone else.

> Workers! No fraternizing! All of you get back to work!

**G7. Crossbow Platform**

Bolted to the floor of this room is a rotating platform equipped with four heavy crossbows that reload automatically. Each crossbow come with twenty bolts. Mounted above the crossbows at a height of 6 feet is a chair equipped with pedals that causes the entire contraption to spin counterclockwise, and with levers that reload and fire the crossbows. This clanking, clattering contraption is a Large object with AC 13, 45 hit points, and immunity to poison and psychic damage. Every time it loses 10 hit points, one of the crossbows breaks.

A creature sitting in the chair can use an action to rotate the device up to 360 degrees counterclockwise and fire up to two of its crossbows in any direction. Each crossbow makes the following attack.

***Heavy Crossbow***. *Ranged Weapon Attack*: +5 to hit, range 50/200 ft., one target. *Hit*: 5 (1d10) piercing damage.

**C8. Mushroom Wine Cellar**

The room contains twelve forty-gallon barrels set into wide alcoves. Each barrel is secured by a wooden brace. The barrels in the south alcove have been tapped with wooden spigots. Two of those barrels are half full, and two are nearly empty. The remaining are untapped and full of mushroom wine.

**C9. Supervisors’ Post**

Mist from the waterfall dampens this empty cave, which has a 10-foot-high ledge overlooking it to the south. The ledge can be reached by following the curved tunnel to the east, or by scaling the slick rock wall with a successful DC 12 Strength (Athletics) check. A warforged supervisor (named Inspector), the primary one for the operation (secondary to and only reporting to Echo), stands on the ledge.

**G10. Spinning Blades**

This area is lightly obscured by mist from the waterfall. The larger eastern part of the room contains two rapidly spinning devices that look like turnstiles fitted with stacks of long, sharp blades spaced 1 foot apart. The northern turnstile spins counterclockwise, while the southern one spins clockwise. Any creature that enters or starts its turn in the eastern part of the room while the blades are spinning must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw, taking 18 (4d8) slashing damage on a failed save, or half as much on a successful one.

Set into the south wall of the smaller western part of the room is a brass lever in the down position. Pulling the lever up causes the turnstiles to stop spinning, allowing safe passage through the chamber. The warforged supervisors bypass this security measure by using the *mage hand* cantrip to move the lever from the east doorway.

**G11. Workshop**

This workshop is cluttered with half-repaired mining equipment, as well as worktables strewn with tinker’s tools. A 10-foot-high ledge overlooks the room, set with a wooden ladder for easy access between this room and G15.

**G12. Domiciles**

The floor of this cave is strewn with the remnants of old campfires. Five side caves serve as sleeping areas, with three small wooden cots crammed into each one. A few human workers sleep soundly here when the characters first arrive. Characters can move through the area without waking the sleeping workers.

**G13. Prison**

The barred door to this area is locked (DC 18 with Thieves’ Tools, or DC 22 Sleight of Hand to open), but you can see three humans dressed as you’d expect artificers to dress inside. These are artificers that were kidnapped from New Cyre. The room contains a jumble of nonfunctional mechanics, as well as loose gears, twisted bits of metal, and other scraps.

**Treasure**. Amid the clutter, the characters can find a *clockwork amulet*, most easily by scanning the rom with a *detect magic* spell. It otherwise takes 1 hour to find the item.

**G14. Primary Mining Chamber**

Three metal tables topped with buckets containing blood-red crystals line each of the three main walls of the room (save for the south wall with the door). A human worker at each table is holding a handheld drill and is actively drilling into the stone wall, totally engrossed in their work. A large warforged in the center of the room is supervising them, who will force the party into room G15 to face Echo if he sees them.

**G15. Central Chamber**

> You enter a large chamber in the center of the cave system. At the left side of the room is a surprisingly clean-looking woman, with the Mark of Making on her face, who is throwing buckets of crystals into a large forge-like machine. After a few minutes, she shovels powder out of the machine and into metal barrels next to her. You see several other barrels through a hallway in the back of the room, all stamped with a symbol composed of overlapping triangles. At the right side of the room is a stone desk in the center, with a large warforged standing in front of it. He scowls at you while saying “What are you doing here?”

There are two ways into this room, via a secret access between here and G14, and the main hallway from G11/G13. When the players enter the room, draw the map and place markers denoting residuum barrels on the two squares on either side of the forge, as well as the three squares in the back hallway. The two rear back hallway barrels are always full, but for the other three, roll a d20. On a 1-10 they are empty, and on an 11-20 they are full.

On the west side closer to the secret access, is a large eldritch machine, known as a Destruction Forge, being worked by a relatively clean looking middle-age woman in surprisingly nice clothing. This is Lei d'Cannith, who was kidnapped from House Cannith in New Cyre to create this machine that could break down Eberron dragonshards into residuum. She is currently throwing buckets of blood-red crystals into the machine, and shoveling out a fine red powder into metal barrels.

On the east side stands Echo, the warforged who is running this operation. Should the player enter the room and heckle Echo, or interfere with operations in any way (such as messing with workers in G14 or bother Lei in this room), he will attack the party. Lei will then run into G14 to avoid the fight.

[https://www.dndbeyond.com/monsters/2742514-greenshadow-warforged](https://www.dndbeyond.com/monsters/2742514-greenshadow-warforged)

If the party handle any of the residuum powder, especially throwing any of the barrels, roll on the wild magic surge table to determine the result. Any result should center on either the player handling the powder or the location of a thrown barrel.

[https://dndwikii.com/guide/wild-magic-table-5e/](https://dndwikii.com/guide/wild-magic-table-5e/)

> If you think you’ve had impact on our plans, you are all fools! The majority of the residuum has already been shipped off to Karrnath. You will not stop our master and friend from completing his tasks and transforming his homeland.

Any psychic probing will reveal the warforged’s name, as well as his connection to someone named Arendorn, who he worked with in Cyre (and is indebted to) during the Last War. Echo has an embedded Disk of Energy Resistance made of citrine (resistance to lightning damage) that’s a relic of the Last War, where he served on the front lines against wandslingers. This could be removed and fashioned into a Ring of Resistance by Bystan, should they come up with that idea.

At the end of the battle, an uncommon (+1) *All-Purpose Tool* is found on Echo’s desk (DC 12 Investigation).

[[1-07. The “Triangles” Marker]]