#adventure #completed [[Urthhold]]

A series of chambers and tunnels at ground level form ancient catacombs near the Gatekeeper Seal itself. They reek of damp earth and stale, deathly air.

***Ceilings***. Ceilings throughout are 8 feet high and flat.

***Earthen Construction***. All tunnels and rooms have walls, floors, and roofs made of packed earth.

***Light***. There is no light within the barrow. Adventurers require darkvision or their own light sources to see inside.

***Sarcophagi***. The sarcophagi found throughout the catacombs are carved from solid blocks of granite and sealed with heavy granite lids. The seals are airtight. Lifting a lid requires a successful DC 20 Strength (Athletics) check. Each lid is a medium object with AC 17, 12 hit points, and immunity to poison and psychic damage.

**Arrival**. The adventurers arrive to the Gatekeeper Seal at night, and no one appears to be around.

> A thirty-foot-high hill rises ahead of you, its top too flat to be a natural occurrence. Jutting from the grassy hilltop is a circle of ten-foot-tall, bone-white rocks that reach toward the night sky. The sky is dark and heavy storm clouds brew overhead, obscuring the Ring of Siberys and the moons. In front of you, dancing lights float around one of the smaller pillars in the front of the formation.

At night, the will-o-wisps in area D2 emerge from the hill using their Incorporeal Movement and float above the barrow, hoping to attract prey with their lights. If they detect characters nearby, the will-o-wisps turn invisible and withdraw into the barrow.

**D1. Secret Entrance**

One of the white rocks atop the hill acts as a stone plug embedded in the earth. Characters searching the hilltop can spot an opening beneath the base of the rock with a successful DC 10 Wisdom (Perception) check. By lashing ropes around the top of the rock, the characters can topple it with a successful DC 19 Strength (Athletics) check. A *knock* spell also causes it to topple over. The opening beneath the rock reveals a 2-foot-wide spiral staircase with flagstone steps, descending 30 feet to area D2.

**D2. Will-O-Wisps**

The tunnels around the spiral staircase are haunted by three **will-o-wisps** (CR 2). The wisps are invisible until they hear intruders coming down the stairs, whereupon they illuminate and move to the far side of the three concealed pit traps (area D3), hoping to lure intruders to their doom. Each wisp has its own pit and attacks any character who falls into it. A wisp that is reduced to 7 hit point or fewer turns invisible on its next turn and flees to hide until the characters leave the barrow.

**D3. Concealed Pit Traps**

Each of these pits is 5 feet wide, 10 feet deep, and dug out of the earth. Rows of rusty swords are embedded into the floor of each pit, whose tops are covered by rotted wooden planks hidden under a thin layer of earth. A creature using a pole or similar tool to prod ahead detects the pit with a successful DC 10 Wisdom (Perception) check. A general check for traps will reveal the pits with a successful DC 15 Perception check.

Any creature that steps one a pit falls into it, taking 1d6 bludgeoning damage and impaling itself on 1d4 swords, each of which deals 1d6 piercing damage.

**D4. Skeletal Surprise**

The bones and rotting saddle of a horse lie in the southern niche of this cavern. When a creature approaches within 5 feet of the bones, they knit together and rise as a skeletal horse. This steed has the statistics of a **riding horse**, except that it’s undead. It bonds with any character who wants to ride it.

**D5. Narrow Tunnel**

This tunnel is only 2 feet wide. At the halfway point, a 5-foot-long pressure plate is hidden under a 2-inch-thick layer of earth. A character prodding ahead with a pole or similar tool can detect the plate with a successful DC 10 Wisdom (Perception) check. The first character to step on the plate causes the walls of the tunnel to collapse inward, burying all creatures in the tunnel. A buried creature is blinded and restrained, has total cover against attacks, and begins to suffocate when it runs out of breath. Only a creature that is not trapped in the tunnel can clear away the collapse, using an action to open up the 5-foot-deep section of tunnel closest to it. A creature in that space is no longer buried.

**D6. False Tomb**

Two sealed stone sarcophagi rest in alcoves dug into the south wall here. Each sarcophagus releases a cloud of corrosive dust when opened, filling the 10-foot-by-10-foot area north of the sarcophagus. Any creature in that area must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw, taking 14 (4d6) acid damage on a failed save, or half as much on a success. The cloud then disappears. The sarcophagus contains nothing of interest.

**D7. Workers’ Wing**

Four sarcophagi in alcoves contain the moldy bones of orcish druid workers.

**Treasure**. Three sarcophagi contain 1d6 x 10 gp. One sarcophagus contains a *Potion of Healing (Greater).*

**D8. Druid’s Den**

Two sarcophagi in alcoves contain the moldy bones of two once intricately-dressed orc druid Gatekeepers. One of the sarcophagi contains a *Staff of the Gatekeeper,* which is found with a DC 12 Investigation check.

An altar in the room houses a book called “Daelkyr and the Gatekeepers”. Players who read the book learn all about the Daelkyr invasion and the Gatekeeper Seals, including that the Seals are holding back manifest zones to Xoriat (the realm of madness) and destruction of any Seals could lead to a new Daelkyr invasion.

> Members of the Gatekeepers, a druid sect dedicated to protecting nature from the unnatural, spend their lives fighting aberrations and guarding against extraplanar invasion and the release of ancient evils.
> The Gatekeepers maintain the oldest druidic tradition on Khorvaire. Over fifteen thousand years ago, the black dragon Vvaraak came to the Shadow Marches and gathered followers around her. She had foreseen a cataclysm that only the younger races would be able to avert, and so she taught the orcs how to work with earth and wood, and how to read the future in the movements of the Ring of Siberys. She charged her students to watch for the signs of the great disaster, and always seek to preserve the balance of nature against those forces that would corrupt it.
> A true child of Eberron, Vvaraak foresaw a disaster that would wound the world itself. The Conclave had no interest in this struggle; just as the dragons had stood aside while the giants of Xen’drik battled Dal Quor, the elders of the Conclave told Vvaraak that they would act when a clear threat to Argonnessen existed, and not before.
> It was over seven thousand years before the Gatekeepers faced the first real threat to Khorvaire: the coming of the daelkyr. Leading armies of illithids, beholders, and other aberrations, these fends sought to remake Khorvaire. The war that followed shattered the hobgoblin empire and left terrible scars across the continent, but Vvaraak's students ultimately prevailed— the gates to Xoriat were sealed, and the daelkyr who remained were driven into the depths of Khyber. The question remained: Was this the cataclysm Vvaraak had predicted, or a prelude to something worse?

You skip ahead to the next chapter….

> Toward the end of the Daelkyr War, the Gatekeepers began placing dimensional seals, known as Gatekeeper Seals, throughout the Shadow Marches and Eldeen Reaches. Since these seals were created nine thousand years ago, though, their magics have been slowly deteriorating. The Gatekeeper druids have been tasked with maintaining their magics; but the Gatekeepers' numbers grow smaller and smaller each year. And while the Gatekeepers have the ability to temporarily generate the effects of a dimensional seal, they do not have the abilities to recreate the artifacts. Should a gatekeeper seal be weakened or destroyed, the madness of Xoriat would once again seep into Eberron.

You skim the next few chapters and encounter pictures and descriptions of several of what you can only guess are daelkyr.

> At least six daelkyr remain trapped in the underground realm of Khyber. Unlike the Overlords of the Age of Demons, the daelkyr are fully conscious and active, and can wander freely in this realm if they so chose. Each daelkyr has their own followers in various Cults of the Dragon Below, which may act as intermediaries for their unfathomable whims on the surface.

- Belashyrra, the Lord of Eyes: One of the most terrifying of the daelkyr, and credited with creating beholders. Belashyrra resides within the Citadel of Lidless Eyes, through which it is thought to be able to see through the eyes of any living creature. The Umbragen society of drow is currently fighting Belashyrra's army of aberrations in Khyber.
- Dyrrn the Corruptor: According to Gatekeeper legend, Dyrrn the Corruptor is the mightiest daelkyr. Dyrrn is responsible for the creation of dolgaunts, dolgrims, and dolgarr from the hobgoblins, goblins, and bugbears. Dyrrn is believed to be trapped in Khyber beneath the Eldeen Reaches.
- Kyrzin, the Prince of Slime: The daelkyr lord of slime, ooze, and disease. Kyrzin is credited with the creation of gibbering mouthers and mimics, and is said to have particular influence over the orcs of the Shadow Marches and their descendants.
- Orlassk, the Lord of Stone: Orlassk is credited with creating the medusas (to their severe objection), basilisks, and other creatures that petrify their victims or manipulate stone. Orlassk is skilled at manipulating flesh and stone, and has knowledge of secret transmutation magic. It is said to travel within a moving citadel, a giant gargoyle prowling Khyber.
- The Stained One: The Stained One is the title of a daelkyr that is served by illithids, beholders, dolgrims, and other aberrations. It is trapped in the Fortress of the Stained within Khyber.
- Avassh, the Twister of Roots: Credited with creating shambling mounds and other forms of strange and twisted plant creatures.
- Valaara, the Crawling Queen: The daelkyr lord of worms, spiders, insects and other creepy-crawlies.
- The Master of Silence: A daelkyr trapped in a realm of Khyber connected to the Shadow Marches. It is served by Dah'mir and is followed by members of the Bonetree clan. The Master of Silence has no mouth and communicates exclusively via telepathy.
- Ysgithyrwyn: A daelkyr lord that during the Daelkyr War was banished back to Xoriat by the Gatekeepers. However, Sinnoch, a dolgaunt agent of Ysgithyrwyn, stumbled across a portal between Xoriat and Eberron. In 998 YK, Sinnoch and his unknowning pawn, artificer Elidyr Brochann, tried to bring Ysgithyrwyn from Xoriat to Eberron in a similar manner. Ysgithyrwyn is credited with the creation of symbionts

The party can rest in the barrows safely. Regardless of whether they do or not, when they emerge from the barrows it’s daytime and Malharath can be seen moving toward the Gatekeeper Seal with his cult following.

[[1-09. The “Runestone” Marker]]

[https://www.reddit.com/r/inkarnate/comments/lyaywq/the_gatekeeper_seal_from_eberron/](https://www.reddit.com/r/inkarnate/comments/lyaywq/the_gatekeeper_seal_from_eberron/)
[https://drive.google.com/file/d/1qJELkpFGDpbIo69jPy3Nb_HKUk2EsXn2/view?usp=sharing](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1qJELkpFGDpbIo69jPy3Nb_HKUk2EsXn2/view?usp=sharing)