#adventure #completed [[Lakeside]] [[Mercerik d’Sivis]]

Date: August 25, 2022

The front door of the shop is locked, and there’s no answer if knocked or called. The lock will need to be picked (DC 12) or the door knocked down (DC 15 Strength) to get inside.

**L1. Potion Shop**

> You enter the shop, and a foyer where customers would normally be served greats you. No one is here though, and the rooms you can see are lit only dimly with wall lanterns, or a fireplace in the distance. Beyond the entry is a larger area with multiple shelves and bins full of random and probably rare magical ingredients. A single closed door exits this room to the west.

The entry area of the building is the storefront for the potion and magic shop that Arend runs (Arend’s Alchemy). Multiple shelves and bins are full of random and rare magical ingredients. 1d6 **Alchemy Beetles** (CR 2) are on a shelf among other items, and are awoken and attack when the players come near.

**Treasure**: Potion of Greater Healing (DC 12 Investigation), Potion of Heroism (DC 20 Investigation)

**L2. Dining Room and Study**

A large desk in the corner of the room is covered in paper illustrating his plan to get Karrnath back on track. The largest piece is the map that the players have, but with more details. Pages on each aspect of the plan can reveal any details that the players didn’t get earlier. Stacks of paper outline food production, water supply, and shelter statistics over the last few years across Karrnath - and they paint the picture of an entire country in distress. Make it clear to the players that Arend has clearly fabricated a plan to turn Karrnath’s troubles around, and he’s been using the people they’ve fought to execute on it.

Also on this map (found with a DC 12 Perception check) is another marking the players don’t recognize from theirs - a large red circle over the Mournland, specifically what would have been Making in the former country of Cyre. Among the papers is another notebook with “Project Siberys” written on the cover (DC 15 Perception check). If the players read the notebook, it outlines the basic information about the ship that was being built by House Cannith, the components needed, and the trouble faced by the project.

> The first page contains a component list, stating: Any ship capable of reaching the Ring of Siberys shall logically require the following minimum components: Khyber-dragonshard-bound fire elementals sufficient to fly straight upward and escape the pull of Eberron, bound air elemental to ensure recycled breathable air in a closed vessel (see example: Tumblers), bound water elemental to maintain water supply for potentially long journey, and some sort of control device (to be determined).

> Various other pages include barely-organized notes about various experiments and attempts at a prototype device. It seems that no matter what they tried, there was insufficient power to launch more than a few hundred feet off the ground. If they were to develop a successful prototype, it would require exponentially more power.

**L3. Master Bedroom**

The players could safely do a long rest here. If searched (DC 12 Investigation), the room also contains Arend’s personal diary in a nightstand. Note that the diary looks very old, and if read the diary contains the following snippets:

> [Dated one week prior to current date]: I can’t get the image out of my dreams, and I’m barely sleeping now. I write this in the middle of the night, as I was awoken by the nightmare once more. A strange symbol I have never seen before, suddenly marked on everyone I know. The entire village consumed by a madness the likes of which I’ve never experienced. And just as they come for me, I awake covered in sweat.
[In the margins is marked over and over again a strange symbol. A DC 12 History check will reveal it’s the same mark that they encounter in their adventure in Urthhold.

> 26 Dravago, 998 YK: Finally, my long toiling in the Animation Chamber has bared fruit! I have created a wight that is under my command, exactly what I need to begin my full plans. He will be sent to the Eldeen Reaches tomorrow and word will be sent to all of my other servants to ramp up their work as well. I am happy to have something going well at least, as my sleep has become more and more toiled over the last weeks.

> Various entries from 997 YK outline information about experiments being performed at the laboratory, including an Animation Chamber, and the alchemy business he’s running.

> A number of entries from 996 YK talk about his decision to move to a small village near Lake Dark, which is a manifest zone to Dolurrh, in order to further explore his necromantic work. Having a necromantic army would allow him to gather resources for Karrnath and bring his country out of the devastation the Last War caused.

> A few entries from 995 YK discuss his time in Vulyar, where he landed after fleeing Cyre, and various ruminations about the abysmal state of his home country. The lack of food, the lack of connectivity with the rest of Khorvaire, and the lack of other various resources.

> 21 Olarune, 994 YK: Yesterday the unthinkable happened - an entire country wiped out in a moment. A flash of light was seen by most, and a rolling fog soon engulfed everything. No one knows for sure what happened, but I can’t help but think it’s related in some way to Project Siberys. I was fortunate to be stationed on the edge of Cyre, and was able to make it out of the country quicker than most., but unfortunately most of my work was lost. I fear to think about what may have happened to those in the center of the country. I shall return to my homeland and hope it fared better.

> A plethora of entries from 894 YK to 994 YK talk about the start and ongoing state of the Last War and his now-solitary work from within a small lab outside of Metrol. He began experiments to create monstrous biological soldiers modeled after the early mechanical soldiers coming from House Cannith, bringing them to life with powerful alchemical injections. At the same time he concocted life-giving alchemical agents to keep himself living longer and longer.

> A few sparse entries from 873 YK to 893 YK discuss his work with House Cannith, primarily on a top-secret project involving elementals, code named “Project Siberys”. But he eventually become enamored with the idea of harnessing the elements in a different way, via alchemy.

> 15 Zarantyr, 873 YK: With my time at Rekkenmark complete, I can finally pursue the life of science I prefer. Tomorrow I will make my way to the enlightened country of Cyre to begin my work with House Cannith. I hope to learn as much as I can from these most educated of makers.

> 14 Therendor, 870 YK: Happy Birthday to me. How am I forced to celebrate my 18th year of life? To trod off to mandatory military training and service. To become a cog in the same wheel of Rekkenmark Academy that every other poor Karrnathi soul has. I can’t help but think I am made for better things.

**L4. Guest Bedroom**

The players could safely do a long rest here.

**L5. Enchanting Room**

Tools, weapons, and armor racks, as well as various magical components dot the room. Several barrels with the Triangles symbol the players will recognize from their map are here as well. A runic circle can be seen marked on the ground, but it appears to be inactive. A rectangular table in the center of the room has four symbols etched into it (alchemical symbols for earth, fire, air, and water, in that order), with a circular indentation beneath each of them. Four colored gemstones (blue, red, green, white) can be found on a nearby table, and a there’s a large purple book on a stand in the corner. If opened and read, it says on the first page:

> Water soaks the ground
> The ground feeds new life
> New life rises to touch the sky

A successful DC 12 Arcana or History check will reveal the meaning of each of the symbols. A successful DC 15 check will reveal the nature of fire and its connection to life (in ancient times many people believed fire to be alive).

Each of the four symbols correspond to an element from the alchemists table. The players must place the gems IN ORDER into the correct slots.

[https://blog.world-mysteries.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/02/alchemy_symbols.jpg](https://blog.world-mysteries.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/02/alchemy_symbols.jpg)

- Blue (water) goes below the Earth symbol (Water soaks the ground)
- Green (earth) goes below the Fire symbol (The ground feeds new life)
- Red (fire) goes below the Air symbol (New life rises to touch the sky)
- White (air) goes below the Water symbol (Deductive reasoning)

Once all the gems are in place, the runic circle on the ground activates, revealing its nature as a teleportation circle (leading to area L10).

A large bookcase on the east wall of the room has several shelves. The center shelf at eye level has three bowls sitting on it - one circular, one square, and one triangular. The shelf above the bowls has four small bottles filled with colored liquid - one each of red, blue, green, and white. The same book on the pedestal referenced in the previous puzzle has another page with a diagram on it. Similar Arcana or History checks can be used to reveal clues for this puzzle if done first.

[https://i.pinimg.com/originals/4c/50/c7/4c50c7f2ea592974208de5d31323cc23.jpg](https://i.pinimg.com/originals/4c/50/c7/4c50c7f2ea592974208de5d31323cc23.jpg) (simplify and change mercury to a square)

To complete the puzzle, the players need to pour the following liquids:

- green and blue liquid into the circle bowl
- blue and white liquid into the square bowl
- white and red liquid into the triangle bowl

Pouring anything incorrectly will cause a Living Spell to emerge, which they must fight.

[https://wrightmat.github.io/dnd/dice.htm?roll=d6](https://wrightmat.github.io/dnd/dice.htm?roll=d6)

| d6 | Living Spell |
| --- | --- |
| 1 | Living Burning Hands (CR 1) |
| 2-4 | Living Lightning Bolt (CR 5) |
| 5-6 | Living Cloudkill (CR 7) |

Completing all of these will cause the bookcase to move, revealing an entrance into area L6.

**L6. Animation Chamber**

A morbid room full of body parts, various tools, and spell components. This is the place where Arend animated the first wight that he sent to Delethorn. A half-emaciated wight is piled in the corner of the room, if the players interact with it then it attacks.

**L7. Kitchen**

A large empty kitchen leads to a pantry to the north and a workshop to the west. A service entrance is on the east wall, down a small stone staircase, which leads outside.

**L8. Workshop**

This small room contains various tools, scrolls, orbs, and a messaging station, all used to keep an eye on his minions across Khorvaire. A gnome named Mercerik d’Sivis is working here, frantically trying to send out messages and clearly not getting responses.

**L9. Pantry**

Crates of food in this room are marked with the same Apple and Waterdrop symbols the players will recall from their map. A Swarm of Poisonous Snakes is hiding amongst the crates, and if the players come near they attack.

**L10. Basement Landing**

The only way to access the basement is from the other teleportation circle in area L5. This small room just leads to the large basement lab where Arend is found.

**L11. Arend’s Lab**

> You enter a large chamber with tables around the periphery. Glass vials and various pieces of equipment scatter the tables, with some broken glass on the tables and floor. At the center table, a man with his back to you is muttering to himself.
> ”So much to do…. but everyone has gone… no reinforcements yet… 
> As he hears you approach, he quickly turns around to address you directly, and you notice a substantial dragonmark on his neck.
> ”So much inspiration… So much creativity… Revelation? Or is it destruction? Madness? I must finish this work, there’s so much more to do… NO INTERRUPTIONS!”
> As he continues to ramble madly, he picks up a glass vial from the table and hurls it at you, causing a cloud of smoke to rise, obscuring your vision.

Arend casts i*nvisibility* after throwing the smoke bomb, which dissipates after the first player’s turn. He also casts m*age armor* (AC 15), s*toneskin* (resistance to nonmagical bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage), and m*ind blank* (immune to psychic damage, any effect that would sense its emotions or read its thoughts, divination spells, and the charmed condition) per the **Archmage** stat block. The invisibility drops when Arend attacks.

Save all 3rd level spell slots for *counterspell* (which does consume the spell slot if countered). Use 5th level for *cone of cold*, and save 2nd level for *misty step* if needed (minus the one saved for *mirror image* below). Focus on *magic missile* at 1st level, and *fire bolt* (ranged) or *shocking grasp* (melee) as a cantrip for damage dealing.

[https://wrightmat.github.io/dnd/dice.htm?roll=1d4&add=1](https://wrightmat.github.io/dnd/dice.htm?roll=1d4&add=1)

If things start going badly (<35 HP), Arend casts *time stop* and then as many spells from this list as possible, in this order, until he runs out of his 1d4+1 actions: *globe of invulnerability*, *fire shield* (as a chill shield, which gives resistance to fire damage), *mirror image*, *disguise self* (to look like one of the party members, while the mirror images continue to look like Arend), and *lightning bolt (4th level)*.

Arend carries a Potion of Superior Healing (8d4+8 HP), Potion of Fire Breath, Potion of Gaseous Form, and Potion of Invulnerability (resistance to all damage types). If things go really badly (<20 HP), he drinks the Potion of Superior Healing first, and then the Potion of Invulnerability on his next turn.

After the fight, a DC 12 Investigation check of the room will reveal an *alchemy jug* on one of the tables. Arend himself is wearing *Boots of the Winterlands*, which would be discovered with a DC 12 Investigation check of the body. Any unused potions he was carrying are also found on the body.