#adventure #completed [[Dabbledob]] [[Hareth and Halekosh]] [[Talon]] [[Oaken Mace]]

### **Synopsis**
After the sudden death of M. Raclette aboard the Orien express, the adventurers have a limited amount of time to learn who the murderer was and ensure they are brought to justice by the time the train pulls into the station. Each passenger (suspect) will go about their day until the end of the trip. The culprit will be one among them.

GOAL: Discover who murdered M. Raclette before the train arrives at Sharn.
PLACE: The Orien Express lightning rail, on a line at least two days’ travel. Good examples includes: from Passage to Sharn, from Krona Peak to Gatherhold, and Sharn to Vathirond.
VILLAIN AND GOALS: Dabriel the fallen angel, who hopes not to be found guilty for the murder on the Orien Express.

### **Scene 1: All Aboard**

> The majestic Orien Express shoots across the landscape, open plains and sparse dots of forest are all that populate the eye. The distinct sound of crackling carries the lightning rail effortlessly over the conductor stones.
> As you nod off to sleep in your compartment, you recall the evening’s events. After boarding the train, which was not as full as you expected, you entered the dining car. Looking around, only two men sat at a table enjoying a drink, one in a uniform denoting lightning rail security. The uniformed man walked away, and you joined the gentleman (who you learned was named Samuel Raclette) at the table for a light dinner. After an hour or so, you retired to Samuel’s compartment in the first-class car for a nightcap.
> These memories drift away into gentle rocking slumber. And then you are jostled awake by a commotion in the passenger car.

Prior to even the sun coming up, the Orc pilot, Tomph, comes trudging down the hall of the Passenger Car. One of the passengers (Vanuath) reported to Roscoe, the Halfling helper, a strange sound from a neighboring cabin. The Halfling checked on the sound, and found Samuel Raclette dead, which he immediately reported to Tomph.

### **Scene 2: The Orien Express**

The party is traveling on the Orien Express, a lightning rail with elemental cars at the front and back of the train, and six other cars in between them. The scene begins in the Passenger Car where Tomph has just delivered the news, and the party can easily get to the Dining Car or Lounge Car by moving one over.

1. Elemental/Crew Car (active): Engine car at the front; only Tomph is allowed here.
2. First-Class Car
3. Galley Car (kitchen and supplies etc): Only Tomph and Roscoe are allowed here.
4. Dining Car
5. Passenger Car
6. Lounge Car
7. Cargo Car
8. Elemental/Crew Car (inactive): Lightning rails have two Elemental Cars that allow the train to flip on a dime and move either direction. This one is currently in the back and inactive, with no one here.

The lightning rail cars have a door on each end of the car that leads to an outside platform with a railing. This allows the passengers to enter and exit at rail stations, as well as travel from car to car while in transit. Each car has a path down the middle, allowing passengers to quickly and easily pass through each car.

**M. Samuel Raclette’s Car (First-Class Car)**
Tomph or Roscoe can allow the players to assess the car in which Raclette’s body was found - so long as they agree to finding the culprit and apprehending them before the train makes it to the final stop.
- DC 10 Perception: The window is open, possible sign of an exit
- DC 12 Medicine: The body is cold, he must’ve been dead for at least an hour before the report was made
- DC 15 Medicine: The victim seems to have been stabbed, but upon further investigation actually died by bludgeoning
- DC 15 Investigation: Raclette’s belongings reveals a briefcase, locked. Inside it (DC 17 with thieves’ tools, DC 19 without) are personal identification documents and contracts for Mr. Zuri Armstrong.

**Lounge Car**
> Banks of windows line this car which is furnished by large leather chairs and ornate wooden tables scattered with books and newspapers.

The description of what’s out the windows should change based on the day/time, and how far along the route the players are. Use the map of Eberron to decide their current location and describe nearby landmarks like forests, lakes, or towns.

**Dining Car**
- DC 12 Perception: three passengers noticed
- DC 15 Perception: four passengers noticed
- DC 17 Perception: all passengers noticed

| d6 | Description | Name |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | A Warforged quietly reads a book called The Machine Manifesto | Oaken Mace |
| 2 | A Shifter cowers in a corner booth, looking angry at the world | Talon |
| 3 | A Gnome reads the Korranberg Chronicle, loudly proclaiming outrage at every story | Dabbledob |
| 4 | Two Kalashtar stare out the window together in silence | Hareth and Halekosh |
| 5 | A Tairnadal Elf peruses the menu with their weapons atop the small table | Vanuath |
| 6 | Re-roll |  |

**Cargo Car**
The cargo car is the same size as every other car, except that instead of tables or beds there are stacks of boxes and equipment. A large-enough open space exists in the middle - paraphernalia is packed up on the sides.
- DC 17 Investigation: You find the body of Vanuath, the real one.
- DC 22 Investigation: Dabriel stashed his mace amidst the mess, and it is found behind a stack of boxes.

### **Scene 3: The Passengers**

Victim: Samuel Raclette / Zuri Armstrong
Raclette is a human male.
- Truth: Raclette’s real name is Zuri Armstrong. He is the owner of Armstrong Industries, a massive conglomerate that supplied military equipment during the war. Armstrong is known for his various dealings with criminal syndicates as well as royal paladins. He supplies everything to anyone. This has put him in a precarious position where everybody hates him. His reputation forced him to hide behind multiple pseudonyms.

Suspect A: Gnome Magewright (Stats: Magewright, pg. 318, Eberron: Rising from the Last War)
> “Generalizations are seldom if ever true and are usually utterly inaccurate.”

Dabbledob is an amiable and knowledgeable dark-skinned Locksmith. They are adorned in simple clothes, with a number of utility belts filled with arcane trinkets and tools across their waist.
- They are aboard the Orien Express to take up work in a large city (Sharn, etc.), with the family business.
- Knowledge: Tomph had to force her way into Raclette’s car, the door was locked from the inside, meaning Raclette either invited the killer in or they were a ghost.
- Truth: Although Dabbledob is no pickpocket, they have dabbled in some thievery. And before resigning themselves to a life of labor, figured that a few of the nobles and fancy folk aboard this expensive rail wouldn’t notice some jewelry go missing. But they are no killer.

Suspect(s) B: Kalashtar Pair (Stats: Kalashtar, pg. 317, Eberron: Rising from the Last War)
> “Curious things, habits. People themselves never know they have them.”

Hareth and Halekosh are members of the King’s Dark Lanterns. Akin to CIA agents.
Hareth, a female agent in a black suit has stark white hair and a sharp jawline. Her partner, Halekosh, male, has softer features beneath his dark suit, and shoulder length hair in a man-bun.
- They are aboard the Orien Express because an informant has told them that one of the passengers threatens the sovereignty of King Boranel.
- Knowledge: The murder was messy. Wounds like that are made with a mace. So, where is the weapon?
- Truth: They were told to ensure Raclette’s smooth assassination. But they are professionals, and would never have made such a mess of it. Besides, it would be entirely legal when they followed the orders of the king. They, unfortunately, did not kill him.

Suspect C: Shifter (Stats: Shifter, pg. 319, Eberron: Rising from the Last War)
> “The young people think the old people are fools. But the old people know the young people are fools.”

Talon is a lithe, swiftstride Shifter. A were-touched with cat-like ears beneath her jet black hair. A slightly flatter nose sits beneath large feline eyes. She wears a thick leather vest and a pale green kilt, with high boots; a staff rests nearby.
- She is aboard the Orien express to venture into the city (Sharn, etc) for the first time. As a wanderer she has roamed the wilds for most of her life, and now seeks new exploits with one of the adventurer’s guilds.
- Knowledge: She was asleep when the murder took place, but when she awoke to the commotion the smell of Vanuath was very strong. Was she keeping Raclette company?
- Truth: She came across Armstrong a few days back, tracking him through Thrane to Passage. He has the whiff of trouble about him, and figured he might lead her to adventure. And she was both right and wrong, it seems. She has killed people before, but only in self defense. She is no murderer.

Suspect D: Warforged (Stats: Warforged Solider, pg. 320, Eberron: Rising from the Last War)
Oaken Mace is a tall, broad Warforged. An (obviously) ex-soldier, in reality a suit of armor with a soul - pockmarked metal advertises his service. They wear a dark green tunic over their body, with the symbol of the Rekkenmark Academy (premier military institution).
- Oaken Mace served in Karrnath, from what they recall. Memories of the war are faded. They were stationed in Irontown, as a guard, until recently. They are heading to Sharn to participate in a Skyblades contest before taking up new work in the city of towers. They have some apparent skill in the aerial jousting.
- Knowledge: If the killer escaped through the window then they are either capable of flight, or an incredibly adept climber. The rail moves at quite a pace this high off the ground. Besides, where would they have gone? The only unpopulated car is the cargo hold.
- Truth: The only link Oaken Mace has to their past, and their possible origin, is an engraving (mark of production) from Armstrong Industries. A stamp located under their left arm. They had been following Armstrong, hoping to get a moment alone with him to question him.

Suspect E: Tairnadal Elf (Stats: Radiant Idol, pg. 308, Eberron: Rising from the Last War)
A radiant dark-skinned elf, beautiful and beguiling. Light elven armor adorns her torso and arms, a faded red bodysuit beneath. White tribal tattoos run the length of one arm, and the side of her face. She flatters all who speak with her.
- She is on the Orien express to meet Tairandal Keepers of the Past, who will determine which patron ancestor has laid claim on her life. She is now of age to become a living avatar.
- Knowledge: She did see Raclette after dinner, and she is somewhat ashamed to admit it. But she maintains that she left his compartment by midnight.
- Truth: Vanuath is actually a Radiant Idol named Dabriel - using the Disguise Self spell. He is the murderer. (If questioned repeatedly, the observant player might notice that Vanuath claims that they are from a different line of Tairnadal elves each time. Once Draleus Tairn, the next Silaes Tairn, then maybe Valaes Tairn).

In addition to the suspects listed above, the two characters who work on the train are Tomph and Roscoe.

Old (Dragonmarked) Orc (Tomph) pilots the Orien Express - she stands at the helm, controlling the elemental and communicating with it during the trip.

Young Roscoe is a Talenta halfling, taken in by Tomph to make a better life for themselves. A feral child who has been fashioned into civility. He is still inseparable from his pet/partner Footstool, a bright green velociraptor about as tall as he is.

### **Scene 4: Conclusion**

Depending on how and when the players discover Dabriel’s true identity, and that he murdered Raclette, the Radiant Idol will escape to the Cargo car. Unless it was found earlier, Dabriel will recover his mace from its hiding place. He will fight until half health - and then attempt to climb to the outside roof of the rail to escape.

> Mortals will follow me. Worship me. Those who do not, are worthless, and will be struck down. That Armstrong, or Raclette, failed to bow down as appropriate. And for that, the worthless worm was killed. What will you do about it?

With the murderer subdued and ideally captured, Tomph is happy to pilot the Orien Express into its final stop - where guards are stationed around Dabriel, until he can be brought before the authorities.

> The final hours of the journey are fairly non-eventful. The passengers generally keep to themselves, some of their personal agendas having been revealed they seem somewhat sheepish. But Roscoe continues to fill you with food and drink, and very soon you come to stop at your destination.