#adventure #completed [[Mournland]] [[Ikar the Black]] [[Daneel Thornwaist]] [[Enchanter]]

The ruined Shardjammer will be found in The Mourning, in an area that used to be known as Making, surrounded by ruins that used to be a House Cannith lab. A warforged who used to work for House Cannith, named Enchanter, has taken up shelter here, and can give the party details of how Project Siberys led to The Mourning.

But in order to get there, the party will need to explore The Mourning, via a good old fashioned hex crawl! The sections that follow contain information that will help run this part of the adventure smoothly. For each day that the party travels through the wilderness, follow these steps:
- Using the map, identify the hex in which the party is currently located. Don't share this information with the players if the party is lost; otherwise, show the players the party's location by pointing to the appropriate hex on their map.
- Let the players determine what direction the party wants to go, and whether the party plans to move at a normal pace, a fast pace, or a slow pace (see "Travel Distances" below).
- Let the players choose a navigator, who makes a Wisdom (Survival) check to determine if the party becomes lost (see "Navigation" below).
- Check for random encounters at each hex (see “Encounters and Points of Interest” below).

**Travel Distances**

On the map of The Mourning, each hex measures 12 miles across. Characters moving at a normal pace can travel 2 hexes per day on foot (or four hexes on horseback).

If characters move at a fast pace, the easiest way to deal with their progress is to roll a d4. On a roll of 3 or 4, they advance 1 additional hex that day. Characters moving at a fast pace take a -5 penalty to their passive Wisdom (Perception) scores, making them more likely to miss clues and walk into ambushes.

If characters set a slow pace, roll a d4. On a roll of 1 or 2, they advance 1 fewer hex that day. On any other result, their caution is rewarded, and they travel the same distance as a group moving at a normal pace. Characters moving at a slow pace can move stealthily. As long as they're not in the open, they can try to surprise or sneak by other creatures they encounter.

**Navigation**

Have the players designate one party member as the navigator. The navigator might be an NPC, such as a guide, and the party can switch its navigator day to day.

At the start of each new travel day, the navigator makes a Wisdom (Survival) check. The result of the check determines whether or not the party becomes lost over the course of the day. The DC of the check is based on the day's most common terrain: DC 14 (+4 for Mournland travel, per Five Nations) for wastes, hills, wetlands/lakes, and glass plateau, or DC 19 for mists, mountains, or glowing chasm. Apply a +5 bonus to the check if the group sets a slow pace for the day, or a -5 penalty if the group is moving at a fast pace.

If the check succeeds, the navigator knows exactly where the party is on the players' map throughout the day. If the check fails, the party becomes lost. Each hex on the map is surrounded by six other hexes; whenever a lost party moves one hex, roll a d6 to randomly determine which neighboring hex the party enters (1 is north, and counts up clockwise around the hex), and do not divulge the party's location to the players. While the party is lost, players can't pinpoint the group's location on their map. The next time a navigator succeeds on a Wisdom (Survival) check made to navigate, reveal the party's actual location to the players.

**Encounters and Points of Interest**

Certain numbered points of interest exist on the map. Upon reaching one of those hexes, read the appropriate text below and follow any special instructions in that section (without rolling, it just always happens).

Upon each entry to any new hex that isn’t a POI as described above, roll a d20. On 18 - 20, a random encounter occurs based on the terrain type - roll on the appropriate random encounter table. On a 1, in any location except for the Dead-Grey Mists, an encounter with Ikar’s Salvage occurs (see end of encounters list) - or this can be replaced by an encounter with the Lord of Blades (after he’s learned about in the Warforged Enclave, Warforged Wanderers, or Lord of Blades Enclave encounters) if you prefer.

**Healing**

Healing - by spells, potions, or natural means - is demonstrably diminished, or even ineffective altogether. There are a few notable exceptions to the Mournland's healing inefficacy. Paladins can perform their Lay on Hand ritual normally, and monks, who have extraordinary control over their own bodies, are able to mend their own wounds but not those of others. Lastly, goodberries, created by druids and rangers, remain a viable healing method, though the difficulty of keeping fresh berries suitable for the spell, as well as the near impossibility of finding edible fruit within the Mournland, makes them scarce comfort. Many explorers have taken to carrying quantities of goodberry wine, a fruity drink with little alcoholic content that retains, and even enhances, the effects of goodberry.

**Resting in the Mournland**

The magical apocalypse that created the Mournland had more effect on the living (and unliving) inhabitants of what was once Cyre than can be documented. Almost everything and everyone there is completely suffused with strange, unpredictable magics. Those brave enough to travel through the Mournland quickly find that they are also not exempt from its effects.

One consequence of these magics is that natural healing takes significantly longer here than elsewhere. Instead of 1 hour, a short rest takes 8 hours, and a long rest takes 3 entire days.

**Spellcasting Rule (Optional)**

Each time a spell is cast within the Mournland, whether an attack against another creature or not, the player rolls a d20. Just like with a melee attack, the spell has the possibility of a critical success or failure. On a 20, one of the spell's effects is doubled - damage, duration, area of effect, or number of targets - chosen by the DM. If a 1 is rolled, the spell has no effect and the spell slot is lost. If material components are called for, they are also consumed.

**Weather**

While dangerous, the dead-gray mists aren’t as actively harmful as the storms that roam the expanses of the Mournland. These storms are as unpredictable in their composition as they are in their frequency and scope. Precipitation comes in the form of everything from normal water to caustic acid to… other substances.

It is up to the DM to decide whether, or how often, their party encounters a storm while adventuring in the Mournland. Storms can be important story-telling moments, or present challenges for the characters that can’t be solved with sword strokes. Use the following system to create random storms, or serve as inspiration for creating your own. Consider your party’s ability to mitigate the damage before unleashing a day-long, severe, regional storm of acid and lightning—or some other particularly deadly horror.

After the party finishes a long rest, roll a d12, where each number represents a two-hour block of time during the upcoming day and night. This signals the time when a storm commences. Next, roll 1d10 and multiply the result by 1d4 (creating a number from 1-40) to determine the number of hours the storm lasts. Establish its intensity and scope by rolling another d12. Finally, roll a d20 to determine the storm’s type/composition.

[Mournland Weather](Shardjammer%20Finding%20the%20Ruined%20%E2%80%98Jammer%202298ef09852f4dec932d4b48bb8b2953/Mournland%20Weather%201533eeb846f74aeeb80d81c852ac4009.csv)

**Mild**: 1d4 damage of each type each hour
**Moderate**: 1d8 damage of each type each hour
**Severe**: 1d12 damage of each type each hour

**Localized**: 1 mile radius
**Neighborhood**: 5 mile radius
**Provincial**: 10 mile radius
**Regional**: 25-50 mile radius

[https://wrightmat.github.io/dnd/dice.htm?roll=d20](https://wrightmat.github.io/dnd/dice.htm?roll=d20)

| d20 | Precipitation and/or Effects |
| --- | --- |
| 1 | Acid |
| 2 | Acid with freezing wind |
| 3 | Acid with lightning |
| 4 | Blood |
| 5 | Blood with flames |
| 6 | Blood with freezing wind |
| 7 | Blood with lightning |
| 8 | Body parts (DMs choice of eyeballs, fingers, toes, other internal organs, or any combination thereof) |
| 9 | Freezing wind with lightning |
| 10 | Hail |
| 11 | Hail with freezing wind |
| 12 | Hail with lightning |
| 13 | Mucus |
| 14 | Mucus with freezing wind |
| 15 | Mucus with lightning |
| 16 | Sand with flames |
| 17 | Sand with freezing wind |
| 18 | Sand with lightning |
| 19 | Water with freezing wind |
| 20 | Water with lightning |

**Damage Types:**
**Acid**: acid
**Blood and mucus**: (optional) DM can choose necrotic, psychic, or even have characters make saving throws against diseases if desired.
**Body parts:** (optional) bludgeoning
**Freezing wind**: cold
**Hail**: bludgeoning
**Lightning**: lightning
**Sand**: slashing

**Locations in the Mournland**

**0. The Dead-Grey Mists**

> Passing from outside the Mournland into the mist is like entering a shadowy, muffled region devoid of life and sun and sound. Whatever arcane event led to the destruction of Cyre, it created a wall of mist that spread out until it defined the Mournland’s borders in all directions. You feel like it would be incredibly easy to become turned around and lost in the mist.

While traveling in the dead-gray mists, visibility is restricted to 5 feet and those who fail a DC 19 Wisdom (Survival) check become disoriented and get lost (see “Navigation”). Upon entry to each hex, roll to determine a random effect (in addition to the regular encounter roll).

[https://wrightmat.github.io/dnd/dice.htm?roll=d8](https://wrightmat.github.io/dnd/dice.htm?roll=d8)

| d8 | Effect of the Mist |
| --- | --- |
| 1 | Hearing voices of people they know for certain are alive |
| 2 | Constant itchiness |
| 3 | The feeling of being watched |
| 4 | A breath in the back of their neck |
| 5 | Silhouettes in the mist |
| 6 | One leg feels heavier, as if someone is grasping it |
| 7 | Eerie, discordant music that resembles no known instrument |
| 8 | Weird mental associations, like smell of rotting flesh that makes their mouth water, or synesthesia, like hearing a dark purple smell. |

Once the players exit the mists, read the following aloud:

> On the other side of the mists, desolate vistas and twisted ruins abound. The land lies in perpetual twilight, for the sun never quite breaks through the mist, and the mist never quite stops glowing even in the dead of night. The blasted land has the characteristics of a wound that never heals, with cracked and burnt ground, shattered rock, and mutated vegetation. Since so many foreign troops occupied Cyre on the Day of Mourning, the bodies of people from all of the Five Nations and beyond litter the devastated countryside. The Mournland has become a vast. open grave, filled with the bodies of the dead that have not yet begun to decompose—even four years after the terrible disaster.

**1. Dollen on the River**

Ghostly Cottage encounter (page 7)

**2. Swoz**

Lord of Blades Enclave encounter (page 8)

**3. Fort Bright**

Military Encampment encounter (page 9)

**4. Eston**

> Eston is heavily ruined, with collapsed buildings on every street corner and entire neighborhoods buried in rubble. All around the ruins of Eston, roaming living spells and all kinds of mutant monsters prey on whatever they can find.

Ruined House Cannith Enclave encounter (page 11)

**5. Kalazart**

Mutant Hive encounter (page 9)

**6. Metrol**

> Many buildings in Metrol sat upon towering, sky-scraping columns of stone, for which it was known as the Rising City. Some parts survived with just superficial damage, even seeming untouched, but many other wards are shattered, with buildings knocked over and crushed. You might even assume this place looks a lot like it did before the Mourning, bar the ever-present dead-gray mists and the emptiness.

> The bulk of the former city is composed of seven large towers, surrounded by smaller ruins. You can make out what was once a lightning rail station, a cathedral, an arena, and a palace. A colossal warforged-like construct sits slumped amid the ruins, near one of the towering stone pillars.

Lightning Rail Station encounter (page 7)

If the players explore any of the seven towers (the ruined Royal Places of Vermishard), then they encounter Empress Donata.

If the players approach the Colossus, then follow the adventure below, based on the map in Rising From the Last War, page 224.

*M1. Colossus Hips*

Climbing up any of the legs leads to the hips section. A small 5 ft. stairwell leads up to the abdomen, but it’s closed behind two blast doors (one on each leg’s side) that have closed since the colossus has been inactivated. Each blast door is a large mithral object (AC 21, 27 HP) that must be destroyed to progress, as there are no locks.

*M3. Colossus Abdomen*

The stairwell to the abdomen section opens up to two double doors (10 ft total) which are sealed shut but look different from the previous blast doors. Any attempt to destroy them fail. There are two metal bars jutting from the ceiling next to the doors (10 ft apart), which spark periodically. In order to activate the door, two players must grab hands and grab each of the bars, completing a circuit and activating the automatic door. Behind the doors is the power source for the colossus, a huge khyber dragonshard. The shard could be broken into smaller pieces with enough time.

*M2. Colossus Chest*

This sections contains a barracks, with multiple beds which would be a safe place for players to complete a long rest (even taking 3 days). A small stairwell leads up to the shoulders section.

*M3. Colossus Shoulders*

Climbing up any of the arms leads to the shoulders section. A room with a large table and chairs is closed behind a blast door (AC 21, 27 HP). This leads to a central chamber behind another blast door, which gives access to a small staircase leading up to the head section. One other blast door leads into another room with a table and chairs. This room also has an opening where the other arm used to be, which now serves as a window out to the Mourning, and an access to a large ballista.

*M4. Colossus Head/Mouth*

The master docent is here on a short platform, can speak telepathically, and knows everything about the former Cyre but very little about the Mournland (except for Metrol itself).

**7. Tronish**

> Once a bustling city, Tronish has fallen to the warped fauna that roam most of the Mournland.

Territorial Dispute encounter (page 12)

**8. Making**

> Like much of the Mournland’s bizarre terrain, the Glass Plateau remains in flux. The huge upwelling of land reshaped much of southern Cyre around the city of Making, which lies in total destruction. A few cracks can be seen forming and un-forming around various stone ruins. One of the stone ruins has a mechanical creature slumped against it.

A warforged who used to work for House Cannith, named Enchanter, has taken up shelter here, and can give the party details of how Project Siberys led to The Mourning.

A DC 12 Investigation check will reveal a crack large enough to enter at one of the ruins. Characters can climb down with a successful DC 15 Athletics or Acrobatics check, or fall for 3d6 bludgeoning damage.

> The crack opens up to a large open laboratory, replete with tools and machinery that are no longer functional. In the center of the room, on a large pedestal is what you can only imagine is what you’re looking for - a half-destroyed eldritch-looking machine.

The half-destroyed ship is what was once known as Project Siberys, a space ship (or “Shardjammer”). There are also various half-burned notebooks on tables around the room that, can be carefully read to reveal any Shardjammer information the group doesn’t already have. From here, they’ll need to move on to the next phase - rebuilding the Shardjammer from various components around the world!

**9. Broken Tower**

Nightmare Palace encounter (page 9)

**10. Greenland**

Warforged Enclave encounter (page 12)

**11. Whitehearth**

Lost Lands encounter (page 8)

**12. Barren Keep**

Old Watchtower encounter (page 10)

**13. Seaside**

Totally Normal Town encounter (page 12)

**14. Shaelas Tiraleth**

Tairnadal Warriors encounter (page 11)

**15. Field of Ruins**

> Nowhere else is Cyre’s status as an open grave more apparent than on the last battlefield of the Last War. The base camps of the armies fighting on the Day of Mourning can still be seen, their tents and watchtowers creaking in the forlorn wind.

[https://wrightmat.github.io/dnd/dice.htm?roll=d10](https://wrightmat.github.io/dnd/dice.htm?roll=d10)

**d10**
1-5: Corpse-Laden Battlefield encounter (page 4)
6-10: Time-Lost Battle encounter (page 12)

**16. Crimson Water**

A dark spot can be seen moving through the red waters. If the players enter the water, an **Aboleth** attacks

**17. Jarp**

Quori Monolith encounter (page 11)

**Field of Living Spells**

| d8 | Encounter |
| --- | --- |
| 1-2 | 1d6 Living Burning Hands |
| 3-4 | 2 Living Bigby’s Hand |
| 5-6 | 1 Living Lightning Bolt |
| 7 | 1 Living Cloudkill |
| 8 | 1 Living Blade of Disaster |

**Random Encounters**

**Wastes**

[https://wrightmat.github.io/dnd/dice.htm?roll=d20](https://wrightmat.github.io/dnd/dice.htm?roll=d20)

| d20 | Wastes Encounter |
| --- | --- |
| 1 | Best of Friends |
| 2 | Clockwork Monsters |
| 3 | Conductor Stones |
| 4 | Crevasse into Khyber |
| 5 | Dimensional Seal |
| 6 | Dislocation Fault |
| 7 | Dragon Mid-Flight |
| 8 | Erratic Manifest Zone |
| 9 | Flesh Forest |
| 10 | F.S.S. Beagle |
| 11 | Gargantua Encounter |
| 12 | Happy Little Cloud |
| 13 | Intellect Devourer Ambush |
| 14 | Many Lakes |
| 15 | Predator and Prey |
| 16 | Salvagers |
| 17 | Skeleton Army |
| 18 | Warforged Wanderers |
| 19 | 1 Giant Mimic |
| 20 | 1 Gibbering Mouther |

**Hills and Mountains**

[https://wrightmat.github.io/dnd/dice.htm?roll=d12](https://wrightmat.github.io/dnd/dice.htm?roll=d12)

| d12 | Hill/Mountain Encounter |
| --- | --- |
| 1 | Crevasse into Khyber |
| 2 | Dragon Mid-Flight |
| 3 | Erratic Manifest Zone |
| 4 | Gravity Dislocation |
| 5 | Intellect Devourer Ambush |
| 6 | Lair of Abraxas |
| 7 | Predator and Prey |
| 8 | Salvagers |
| 9 | Warforged Wanderers |
| 10 | 1d6 Bronze Scout |
| 11 | 1 Earth Elemental |
| 12 | 1 Gem Stalker |

**Wetlands and Lakes**

[https://wrightmat.github.io/dnd/dice.htm?roll=d12](https://wrightmat.github.io/dnd/dice.htm?roll=d12)

| d12 | Wetland/Lake Encounter |
| --- | --- |
| 1 | Crevasse into Khyber |
| 2 | Erratic Manifest Zone |
| 3 | Happy Little Cloud |
| 4 | Intellect Devourer Ambush |
| 5 | Many Lakes |
| 6 | Octopodes |
| 7 | Salvagers |
| 8 | Warforged Wanderers |
| 9 | 1 Carcass Crab |
| 10 | 1 Minor Sharknado |
| 11 | 1 Water Elemental |
| 12 | 1d3 Slithering Tracker |

**The Mists**

[https://wrightmat.github.io/dnd/dice.htm?roll=d4](https://wrightmat.github.io/dnd/dice.htm?roll=d4)

| d4 | Mists Encounter |
| --- | --- |
| 1 | 1 Air Elemental |
| 2 | 1 Dust Devil |
| 3 | 1 Shadow Mastiff |
| 4 | 1d3 Vampiric Mist |

**Glowing Chasm**

> This vast crack in the earth emits a cold purple or violet light that seems to come from impossibly deep underground. Its source is unknown and cannot be seen from the top, and no one who has gone to investigate has been seen alive again.

[https://wrightmat.github.io/dnd/dice.htm?roll=d8](https://wrightmat.github.io/dnd/dice.htm?roll=d8)

| d8 | Chasm Encounter |
| --- | --- |
| 1 | Gravity Dislocation |
| 2 | Intellect Devourer Ambush |
| 3 | Metallic Animals |
| 4 | Salvagers |
| 5 | Warforged Wanderers |
| 6-8 | Roll on Appendix A (pg 13) to get a random mutated monster |

**Glass Plateau**

> You come upon a vast highland plateau, composed entirely of glass. Although it is overall a smooth and flat expanse, there are also spikes, spires, peaks, and other formations of sharp and jagged glass protruding from the floor in places seemingly at random. They resemble blown glass and can grow to huge sizes and some are bewildering and incomprehensible in shape. Near the center, the glass is black, like obsidian, but as one gets closer to the edges, the glass starts to get lighter in color and more transparent.

[https://wrightmat.github.io/dnd/dice.htm?roll=d10](https://wrightmat.github.io/dnd/dice.htm?roll=d10)

| d10 | Plateau Encounter |
| --- | --- |
| 1 | Glassy Fissures |
| 2 | Gravity Dislocation |
| 3 | Intellect Devourer Ambush |
| 4 | Metallic Animals |
| 5 | Salvagers |
| 6 | Warforged Wanderers |
| 7 | 1d6 Living Burning Hands |
| 8 | 1 Living Cloudkill |
| 9 | 1d4 Living Lightning Bolt |
| 10 | 1d4 Glasswork Golem |

**Ikar’s Salvage**

Ikar's Salvage is a company of professional scavengers (including warforged and Karrnathi undead), the largest active in the Mournland, and led by Ikar the Black.

Working to find and sell things of value in the Mournland, Ikar holds open-ended contracts with Prince Oargev ir'Wynarn of New Cyre, the government of Karrnath, and the Order of the Emerald Claw (his true masters, to whom he sold the best pickings).

Maintaining a mobile base of operations, they mostly roam the Cyre River's western shore, but they will cross the river via barge and even drive elemental land carts over the wasteland. They make frequent expeditions into the Mournland, focusing their efforts on the ruins of Metrol and its environs.

The party may randomly encounter his group at any time and in any place. If this happens, they may be able to buy or sell goods, if they can convince Ikar to cooperate (DC 15 Persuasion, Intimidation, or Deception). Though they are capable and act professional, they are ruthless and murderous, being composed of former rowdy outlaws who gave up banditry on the trade roads of Khorvaire.

**Lord of Blades**

The Lord of Blades is a warforged warlord who has broken all ties with his former masters. He has established a nation for his people deep in the Mournland, centered in a great fortress where warforged from all over Khorvaire can come and feel a sense of belonging. No one knows what the Lord of Blades plans for his followers, but many fear that he intends to build a legion of warforged zealots, primed to march from the Mournland to unleash destruction on their former masters.

Some tales assert that the Lord of Blades led the warforged armies of Cyre in the Last War. Others cast him as a newer warforged, perhaps the last to come out of the Cannith creation forges before the Thronehold Accords led to their dismantling. One story claims the Lord of Blades caused the destruction of Cyre and warns that he plans to repeat the Day of Mourning in each of the remaining Five Nations. Whatever the truth, he has become a beacon for warforged everywhere.

[https://www.dndbeyond.com/monsters/486200-the-lord-of-blades](https://www.dndbeyond.com/monsters/486200-the-lord-of-blades)