#adventure #completed [[Mournland]] [[Lei d'Cannith]] [[Daine Halar Deneith]] [[Pierce]]

Starrin d’Cannith was the Patriarch of the House at the time of Project Siberys, and thereby the Executive Sponsor of the project, final sign-off on all decisions. Norran d’Cannith was the actual project lead though, and is the verifier on most of the project notebook pages (N.C.). K.B. is the just the principle researcher, and a nod to Keith Baker (players would have no way of knowing the actual name).

The following components will be needed to construct a working Shardjammer:
- Four to eight Khyber-dragonshard-bound fire elementals.
- Two bound air elementals for air recycling.
- Two bound water elementals for drinkable water recycling.
- Ten to twenty Eberron dragonshards should be needed as Focusing Nodes in a ship this size. These can be found many places, but are most common in swampy regions such as Q’barra.
- Two bound lightning elementals per energy weapon, and/or two bound earth elementals per missile-type weapon. These may be optional, depending on what’s required by the source book.
- Hull needs to be made of Soarwood from Aerenal.
- Siberys dragonshards can be found in Xen’drik, where the Sulatar Drow have the knowledge to create a Siberys-dragonshard-infused control device.
    - Illicit Shipment, Secrets of Xen’drik, pg. 104

**Shardjammer Galleon**

AC: 15 (Soarwood)
Hit Points: 400
Damage Threshold: 15
Speed: fly 50 ft (5 mph)
Cargo: 20 tons
Crew: 12
Keel/Beam: 90 ft./30 ft.

Lightning Elemental Cannons (Crew: 2 Each)
Armor Class: 16
Hit Points: 100
Lightning Pulse. Ranged Spell Attack: +8 to hit, range 120/480 ft., one target. Hit: 24 (8d6) lightning damage.