#adventure #completed [[Dragonroost]]

- As a “random encounter” at the next rest, Adara reaches the group and hands off the aforementioned birthday card to Bystan and exposits a little about how Phlain is living in the fae court.
- Adara can then leave and vanish/despawn as part of the Mournlands evershifting topography.
    - This all happens on 9/22/22

- Adventure continues as written.

- Once we leave the Mournland, and reach the next town, they bump into Adara.
    - This will happen in Dragonroost.
- Bystan announces that he’s decided to retire from adventuring to find his father and reconnect with family.
- Adara offers to open the door to Thelanis for him to get there.
- Adara joins the party.
- During the first long rest after introduction, Adara experiences a repressed memory as a dream/vision that explains her “Divine Contact” feat as part of the “Astral Drifter” background.

> You recall yourself floating through the complete blackness of totally empty space, unable to move, or even look down upon yourself (whatever direction down even is). But as your mind stirs inexplicably, you slowly recall the event that led you to becoming petrified. Alas, there's nothing you can do about it now, and you float for what feels like an eternity, without even the stars to accompany you. After what must be many years, you seem to emerge from whatever blackness you were wrapped in, and start to see stars faintly glimmer again. But the stars are far from the most intriguing new thing, as you see a small girl suddenly appear in front of you.

> The girl is short and thin, with wild hair and eccentric clothing, but her appearance also shifts randomly as she moves closer toward you. As she gets close enough that you hear a faint giggle, you catch the smell of sweat, late nights, sour wine, and old leather. As you contemplate how you can smell anything in this vast empty space, and how your senses are working at all in your stone-like state, the girl is right in front of you. You notice that one of her eyes is green and shimmering with silver flecks, and the other is blue; as she reaches out and places a hand on your forehead. You hear the sound of a fading, distant giggle, as everything goes black.