#adventure #completed [[Lorghalen]] [[Rida Tan Lorghalen]]

There are at least three ways the players could go about obtaining elementals needed for a ship:

- Bound elementals purchased from gnomes in Zilargo. This would require an engineer with the Mark of Storm in order to control them.
    - Zilargo binds fire, water, and air elementals, but not lightning. So lightning elementals would need to be obtained by one of the other methods. Or maybe a separate adventure to teach Zilargo how to bind lightning elementals?
- Free elementals from gnomes in Lorghalen. This would require a stonesinger engineer in order to convince them to act.
- Bound elementals captured by a Sulatar Drow in Taer Valaestas (Valenar). This would require the Sulatar as an engineer in order to keep them bound and direct them, as well as either purchased or mined Khyber dragonshards.

**Trolanport (Zilargo)**

- Shard prices:
    - Eberron (small): 4 (1d8) gp
    - Eberron (medium): 80 (4d4x10) gp
    - Eberron (large): 160 (4d8×10) gp
    - Siberys (small): 100 (1d8x25) gp
    - Siberys (medium): 800 (4d4×100) gp
    - Siberys (large): 2400 (4d8×150) gp
    - Khyber (small): 300 (1d8x75) gp
    - Khyber (medium): 750 (3d4x125) gp unbound, or 1000 (4d4x125) gp bound
    - Khyber (large): 3000 (3d8x250) gp unbound, or 4000 (4d8x250) gp bound
- Impart some mechanical difference between shard sizes?

**Lorghalen (Island off of Q’barra)**

Stonesingers don’t bind elementals, as much as convince them to comply via their song. Doing so requires a significant performance check that the party will need to assist with. All players who come up with a way to contribute will roll a Performance check, and all of them will be added together with the Stonesinger’s. If the group beats the DC (which is set at half of the elemental’s HP), the creature is convinced.

[https://keith-baker.com/dm-lorghalen/](https://keith-baker.com/dm-lorghalen/)

**Taer Valestas (Valenar)**

To capture an elemental, the party will need to fight it and reduce it to at least half HP (Pokemon style). At that point, instead of being described as “bloody” they’ll be described as “unstable”. A player will need to touch the elemental while also holding a dragonshard, while their guide (either a Sulatar or Gnome) casts a spell to complete the binding. That means any touch effect (such as being burned by a fire elemental) will happen as well.