#adventure #completed [[Mordain’s Hall]] [[Frederic]]

### **Background**

> When madness and night align
> And innocent blood waters the dark tree
> The noble soul must claim the Coat of Eyes
> And bear this burden for the good of all.
> —From the Talash Siberys

Thousands of years ago, the fearsome daelkyr came to Eberron from the Far Realm of Xoriat. After a long and bitter struggle, an order of druids known as the Gatekeepers used ancient primal magic to bind the lords of madness in the depths of Khyber, the underworld of Eberron. However, the influence of the daelkyr can still be felt in the world today. Mind flayers, beholders, and lesser aberrant monsters continue to do the bidding of their malevolent daelkyr masters, and in those places where the borders between Xoriat and Eberron are weak, mortals embrace dark dreams and fall prey to the voice of madness.
Tucked into the wild frontier of the Shadow Marches, the village of Blackroot is located on a manifest zone—a nexus point between Eberron and the planes of Xoriat and Mabar, the Endless Night. One of the Cults of the Dragon Below has long flourished in this place, its members sworn to the service of Belashyrra, a daelkyr known as the Lord of Eyes. Partaking of Belashyrra’s foul gifts, those who serve him become something less than human.
The PCs come to Blackroot at a critical time—a rare alignment with both Mabar and Xoriat. When the powers of night and madness are at their height, a gate opens allowing the cultists to descend into the underworld of Khyber. They call this the Harvest—a time when innocent villagers are kidnapped and taken below, their souls bound to the cult and their bodies branded with the living eyes of Belashyrra. Can the PCs save these unfortunates before they become the newest servants of the Lord of Eyes?

### **Hook**: Madness and Night Align

You still struggle to understand the nature of the Draconic Prophecy. Moons, planes, dragonmarks—for those with eyes to see, the Prophecy has the power to shape the future. Your patron (Professor Frederic of Arcanix) believes that a fragment of prophecy from the Talash Siberys— an ancient codex held by the dragons of Argonnessen— is about to come to pass. As such, he has tasked you with finding a relic known as the Coat of Eyes, sending you to the tiny village of Blackroot in the Shadow Marches. There, you are to speak with Doria Veledaar, a former resident of the village and House Tharashk inquisitive who claims to have information regarding the Coat.
This hook works best for PCs who have a connection to an academic or arcane institute, including Morgrave University,
Arcanix, the Library of Korranberg, or the Twelve. Define the patron based on this connection, and read the excerpt from the Talash Siberys at the start of the adventure. The patron believes that Doria’s information relates to the imminent convergence of Mabar and Xoriat in the region of Blackroot, and he wants the PCs to investigate.

**What Do You Know?**

Before starting the adventure, set the scene by telling the players what they know about the Shadow Marches. A PC knows the following information with a successful skill check.

- **History DC 8**: The Shadow Marches are not a recognized nation. Rather, the Marches are an independent territory whose established relationships with its neighbors and the outside world come largely from the presence of House Tharashk. The folk of the Shadow Marches have a reputation for xenophobia, and outsiders are rarely welcomed here.
- **History DC 12**: Orcs make up more than half the population of the Marches, though humans, half-orcs, and other races also dwell here. The Shadow Marches are composed of two distinct cultures—the orc tribes that first settled these lands and the clans formed by later human migrants.
The orc tribes are an insular society, though humans and half-orcs are sometimes accepted into an orc tribe if they can prove themselves. The tribes are territorial, and typically attack trespassers on sight. Thankfully, their territories
in the central Marches see few visitors.
Closer to the outer edges of the Marches, mixed clans of humans and half-orcs are more accepting of the outside
world, mostly through their association with House Tharashk. The clans have more in common with the folk of “civilized” Khorvaire than do their kin in the orc tribes, and they demonstrate a greater level of trust toward outsiders.

### **Scene 0: Arriving in Blackroot**

> Your journey through the Shadow Marches has left your cloaks and armor covered in mud, your clothes soaked with sweat. Hungry insects buzz about you, and the air is warm and wet. Your destination is Blackroot, a village tied to the Dorrm and Veledaar clans. The sun is beginning to set when the settlement finally comes into view. Like most villages in the Marches, this small community offers few amenities and no dragonmarked house services. There is no central authority in the Shadow Marches, and the village reeve is responsible for administering justice in the local region.
> Blackroot draws its name from the darkwood trees that thrive in this region, their tangled roots rising up from the soil to all sides. The ground here is relatively solid for the Marches, and the village sits atop a rocky rise. Its huts sit directly upon the ground instead of being raised on stilts above marshland, as is common elsewhere in the region. Orcs, humans, and half-orcs work together in the nearby orchards or pass along the main street. None of them seem particularly pleased to see you.
> Within moments, you are approached by a lean and muscular orc. His skin is weathered, streaks of gray seen in his long black hair. He bears no weapons and wears loose peasant clothing, but he carries himself with confidence. “Greetings,” he says. “I am Toraash’Dorrm, the reeve of Blackroot. I don’t know what brings you here, but we’ve no inn, no tavern, and no time for strangers. I suggest you move on.”

Toraash is gruff but not actually aggressive. A DC 15 Persuasion check inspires him to warm slightly. Nonetheless, he will not answer questions about himself or the village, as he has no time for idle talk with strangers. If the PCs tell him they are seeking Doria Veledaar, he begrudgingly points them to her family’s cottage. However, he says that the Veledaars recently left Blackroot; he believes that Doria convinced her family to move to Sharn.
Given that the cottage is empty, Toraash won’t stop the PCs from visiting it or sleeping there. However, he asks them to be on their way by the next morning. He then leaves, rebuffing any further efforts at conversation. Anyone making a DC 10 Insight check can tell that Toraash is concerned about the PCs’ presence in the village, but this reaction is not unusual. It’s hardly surprising that the leader of a small, insular community would treat armed strangers with suspicion. However, a character making a DC 15 Insight check senses that the reeve isn’t telling the full truth about Doria and her family.
While the PCs are investigating in Scene 1, Toraash slips away to the caves (see Scene 2). His absence from the village during the skill challenge can be easily noted by the PCs.
On the off chance that the PCs decide to immediately attack Toraash, the reeve flees the scene, running for the cavern entrance (Scene 2). An orc war chief (CR 4) and three cultist fanatics (CR 2) move to engage the PCs, buying Toraash time to escape.

### **Scene 1: Where’s Doria?**

This skill challenge represents the player characters’ search for clues regarding the disappearance of Doria and her family. By talking to the people of Blackroot and investigating the Veledaar dwelling, they learn that Doria and her family were kidnapped. The party can then trail the cultists to their lair.

**Skill Challenge: Searching for Doria**

> Doria Veledaar was supposed to be staying with her family in Blackroot, but the Veledaar household has been abandoned. However, there seems to be more to the family’s disappearance than the reeve Toraash lets on.

While the PCs can learn a little from talking to the villagers, the critical clues to Doria’s disappearance are found in the Veledaar household.

**Complexity**: 8 successes before 3 failures

**Arcana** (DC 15): The PC senses the ambient mystical energies that surround the village, and recognizes a powerful concentration of arcane energy somewhere close by. With a second successful check, the PC notes its general direction. This skill can be used to gain 2 successes in this challenge.

**Insight** (DC 12): The PC discovers that there is more to Blackroot and the Veledaar family’s disappearance than meets the eye. With each successful check, the party gains another piece of information as presented below.

- The villagers the PC encounters are tense and hostile, but you sense that this tension is due to more than the presence of strangers.
- Many of the folk of Blackroot seem fearful, as if anticipating some imminent challenge or threat.
- From the condition of the Veledaar house, the PC finds it unlikely that Doria’s family left to seek new lives. A number of useful or sentimental items that would likely have been taken on an extensive trip were left behind. This check can be made only after a successful Perception check made to search the house.
- A fourth success provides the same result as a successful Charisma (Investigation) check (see below). This skill can be used to gain 4 successes in this challenge.

**Perception** (DC 12): In the village and within the Veledaar house, the PCs can seek clues to the family’s disappearance. With each successful check, the party gains another piece of information as presented below.

- As the party makes its way to the Veledaar house, the PC notes that a number of other houses in the village seem to be standing empty.
- The PC finds no signs of forced entry in the Veledaar house, but uncovers hints that a struggle took place there. Broken furniture has been hastily put back together, and faint drops of blood are scattered across the dirt floor.
- Trampled into the dirt of the floor, the PC finds the broken tip of what appears to be a dagger blade crafted from volcanic glass.
- The PC finds a necklace with its leather cord snapped as if by force. It is a pendant formed from strands of volcanic glass set around what looks like a mummified eye. Once the pendant has been found, the PCs can make a Religion check to identify it (see below). The pendant allows the PCs to attempt to bluff the guards in Scene 2, and proves useful in Scene 4 and 5. This skill can be used to gain 4 successes in this challenge.

**Persuasion or Intimidation**: No villager will speak with the PCs long enough to make use of Persuasion, and any attempt to intimidate the folk of Blackroot quickly escalates to conflict unless the PCs back off. A Persuasion check automatically earns the PCs 1 failure in the skill challenge, but the PCs gain a +2 bonus on the next Charisma (Investigation) check made in the challenge. An Intimidation check automatically earns the PCs 1 failure in the skill challenge, and makes it impossible to make a Charisma (Investigation) check.

**Religion** (DC 15): A successful check allows the PC to identify the pendant found in the Veledaar house as a holy symbol of one of the Cults of the Dragon Below— worshipers of the powers that lurk within Khyber.

**Charisma (Investigation)** (DC 10): Despite the wariness of the villagers, a successful check earns the PC the following information.

> An old orc pulls you aside. His skin is weathered and he’s lost his teeth and tusks, but his eyes are still sharp. “It’s the Harvest,” he mutters. “Sowing the new crop. This night, with three moons in the sky and darkness below. If you know what’s good for you, you’ll be out of here before it comes for you, too.”
> 

If the PCs try to get more information from the old orc, he acts as if he has forgotten the past few moments and does not speak to them. No amount of cajoling or intimidation will sway him.

This check does not earn a success or failure in the challenge, but the PCs are more alert to small clues after the stranger’s warning. A successful check grants a +2 bonus to all subsequent checks made in the challenge.

**Success**: The PCs discover a blood trail or follow the ambient arcane energy in the area (your choice, depending on the successful checks made in the challenge). This takes them to Scene 2. Because the characters have managed to not attract attention to themselves, the guards in Scene 2 are not immediately hostile to the party, and are even susceptible to being bluffed.

**Failure**: The PCs’ actions in the skill challenge draw the attention of an angry villager, who quickly gathers a crowd demanding that the party leave town immediately. During the altercation, one of the PCs notes two armed villagers slipping away along a hidden path at the far side of the village. By pretending to leave Blackroot, then doubling back, the PCs can find the path leading to Scene 2. However, the guards there will have been warned of the party’s presence in the village. They attack with surprise when the PCs approach.

The PCs can choose to attack the villagers, but any such fight is a one-sided affair (treat the villagers as minions; +4 vs. AC; 3 damage). Moreover, while the villagers are uniformly fearful of the cult, they are not active cultists. All the ranking members of the cult have already gone to the caverns in preparation for the Harvest about to begin

### Scene 2: Cavern Entrance

Four champions of Belashyrra guard the entrance to the cult’s subterranean shrine.

**Features of the Area**

**Illumination**: Bright light if the PCs approach by day. At night, two smoky torches at the cave mouth provide bright light in a 5-square radius.

**Foliage**: The area shown is a clearing. Beyond the edges of the map, thick foliage and protruding roots create difficult terrain.

**Treasure**: Between them, the cultists are carrying 60 gp. Each of the cultists wears a holy symbol like the one in the Veledaar cottage. Note whether anyone takes these symbols and what they do with them. A character who wears a symbol openly is protected from threats in Scenes 4 and 5, but wearing a symbol under clothing or carrying it in a belt pouch or pack provides no benefit.

> The clues you have gathered lead eventually to a weathered path. The foliage around you is dense and tough, with bloodvines winding around and between the darkwood trees, but the path you’re on is cleared and well worn. As you approach a sloping hill, you see a clearing open up around the mouth of a cave.

If the PCs were successful in the previous skill challenge, the burly orc wardens (Orc War Chief, CR 4) block the mouth of the cavern while the cultist eyeblades (Cult Fanatic, CR 2) hide among the trees (Perception DC 19 to spot them). If the PCs failed the skill challenge, all four guards have been warned of their possible approach and are out of sight in the trees. They cannot be spotted by the PCs, and they attack with surprise when the first party member passes close enough. If the PCs can see the orc wardens, read:

> Two villagers stand watch by the mouth of the cave — heavyset orc woodcutters, their axes at the ready.

Whether they succeeded or failed at the skill challenge, the PCs can attempt to approach using stealth, but the
guards are keeping a sharp watch. The wardens have passive Perception checks of 11, while the eyeblades have
passive Perception of 14.
The cult likes to keep a low profile, and if the party succeeded in the initial skill challenge, the wardens are not
automatically hostile. When the PCs are within speaking range, the wardens call out to tell them the cave is being used for a private religious ceremony. If questioned at a distance, they say that they know nothing about any cult or missing villagers, then firmly ask the PCs to leave. They attack when the first PC approaches within 5 squares.

**Skill Challenge: Bluffing the Guards**

If the PCs found the holy symbol in Scene 1, they can attempt to pass themselves off as foreign cultists who have
come for the Harvest. This requires an improvised skill challenge.

**Complexity**: 6 successes before 3 failures

**Primary Skills**: Religion, Intimidation, Persuasion, Performance, Deception. All checks are DC 10; Intimidation checks are made with disadvantage unless a fake identity is established.

**Success**: The characters are allowed to enter the cave unopposed. They gain XP as if they’d defeated the guards in combat.

**Failure**: The guards see through the PCs’ ruse and attack.

**Tactics**

Once battle is started, the orc wardens close quickly. They use Belashyrra’s eye to keep foes from engaging the eyeblades, laying into the closest PCs with greataxe attacks.
The eyeblades engage the PCs from range for as long as they can, targeting marked PCs for combat advantage.
When challenged, they flank with short sword attacks for combat advantage.
One of the orc wardens possesses a *tongueworm* that he uses when bloodied (+8 to hit; 1d10+1 poison damage). This cord of muscle lashes out from his mouth to strike an opponent. This should catch the PCs by surprise, as they realize the guards are not the simple farmers they appear to be.

<aside>
💡 **Cultist Lore**
At first glance, the orc wardens appear to be village militia— potentially dangerous, but not obviously connected to the Cults of the Dragon Below. (Their holy symbols are tucked beneath their lizard-hide armor.)
The human eyeblades are a different matter. They are dressed in loose black clothing and their daggers are chipped from glittering volcanic glass—the same material the holy symbols are made from. Each eyeblade has a leather cord wrapped around its wrist, threaded through a number of mummified eyes—trophies claimed from previous victims.
If the PCs search the bodies of their defeated foes, each cultist possesses at least one additional eye somewhere on his body (Perception DC 15).
A character knows the following information about the cult with a successful skill check.
**Religion DC 20**: The Cults of the Dragon Below are splintered into dozens of sects, each following a different dark power. The theme of eyes found on these cultists suggests that this sect serves the daelkyr Belashyrra— called the Lord of Eyes, and said to have created the beholders.
Additionally, if the cultists in this or any later encounter are taken alive and interrogated, they reveal the story of the Harvest. Paraphrase the information given in the “Background” section. Within hours, Doria Veledaar and a number of other villagers taken for the rites will be claimed by the Lord of Eyes.

</aside>

### Scene 3: The Hall of Living Words

This area holds neither a battle nor a skill challenge, but the PCs can use this encounter to improve their odds in upcoming encounters. There are no creatures in this long corridor. It simply sets the mood of what is to come, and might help or hinder the characters in Scenes 4 and 5.

**Features of the Area**

**Illumination**: The eerie writing crawling across the walls sheds dim light throughout the area.

**Distant Sounds**: A DC 17 Perception check or passive Perception check reveals faint chanting coming from farther along in the caverns. With a DC 20 Perception check, the listener can make out words. If he or she understands Deep Speech, the chanting is recognized as praise to “He who watches behind each eye.”

> The cavern ahead is dry and musty, the floors worn smooth by generations of passing footsteps. Your footsteps are faint echoes as you descend deeper and deeper. Suddenly, an eerie crimson glow rises from the passage ahead.

Although there is no threat here, let the PCs take whatever precautions they wish. Keep the players in suspense for as
long as possible. When the party explores the light, read:

> The walls of the cavern are covered with lines of red light— scrawls and scribbles painted in what looks like glowing blood. The symbols resemble some sort of writing, although this is no language you know, the text is infuriatingly familiar. Suddenly you realize that the symbols are moving—crawling slowly across the walls and floor. Whether you stare or avert your eyes, you are overcome with the feeling that you might be able to force the wall to reveal its secrets to you, if only you put your mind to it.

**Living Words**

Any PC can attempt to decipher the living words of the cavern walls. It is not a question of reading a language, but rather of staring at the glyphs and forcing them to make sense with a DC 15 Arcana or Religion check. With a successful check, the character realizes that the glyphs are an endless scrawl of names, each capturing not just the identity but also the spiritual essence of a creature. These are the souls of long-dead cultists trapped here by the foul
rites of the Harvest.

A character who tries to read the words and fails takes 1d6+4 psychic damage as the spiritual energy imbued
within the symbols corrupts his soul. PCs who attempt this check also gain advantage or penalty as the party proceeds through the caverns. See the next two scenes for more information.

### Scene 4: Glyphs of Madness

There are no monsters in this area, but a magical trap can set the cult’s enemies against each other.

**Features of the Area**

**Illumination**: The luminous glyphs fill the area with dim light.

**Ceiling**: 20 feet high.

**Alcove Shrine**: A doorway opens up to reveal three circular alcoves. These contain small shrines to Arawai, Balinor, and Olladra, but all three have been badly chipped and defaced.

**Distant Sounds**: A DC 15 Perception check or sufficient passive Perception reveals chanting coming from farther along in the cavern. With a DC 20 Perception check, the listener can make out words. If he or she understands
Deep Speech, the chanting is recognized as praise to “He who watches behind each eye.”

> Past the hall of living words, the cavern takes a sharp turn. A doorway to one side opens up to some sort of alcove. Around the corner, the floor ahead is covered with pulsing lines of crimson light—a pattern more prominent and sinister than the strange designs that cover the walls behind you.

The ominous chanting from ahead is louder now, melding with the whispers of the mystical glyphs set across the
floor. This trap is the sole obstacle here, but the PCs have the choice of disarming it (dispersing its mystical energy)
or simply forcing their way past it.

**Glyphs of Madness**

A swirling mass of burning crimson lines covers the floor. The pattern slithers and shifts like a nest of vipers, and as you look at it, you hear strange whispers in the back of your mind.

**Trap**: The glyph covers the 10-foot-by-20-foot segment of the hallway between the room and the long corridor.

**Perception**: No check is required to see the glyph.

**Religion** (DC 19): The character recognizes the nature of the glyph and the effect it has on those who touch it.

**Trigger**: The glyph attacks when a creature enters one of its four squares. A creature who attacks the glyph also triggers a retaliatory attack. This targets a random opponent at any range.

**Target**: The creature that triggered the glyph. A creature wearing or showing a holy symbol of the Dragon Below is not attacked.

**Attack**: The target is forced to make a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the target is Charmed and attacks its closest allies (save ends).

**Countermeasures:**

- A character can engage in a skill challenge to disable the glyph: Intelligence (Arcana), Intelligence (Thieves’ Tools), Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) with DC 15. Complexity 2 (6 successes before 3 failures). Success disables the trap. Failure causes the character making the final failure to be dominated as above, with a –2 penalty to the saving throw.
- A character who successfully read the walls in Scene 3 gains a +2 bonus to checks to disable the trap and to saving throws against the dominate effect.
- A character who attempted to read the walls in Scene 3 and failed takes a –2 penalty to checks to disable the trap and to saving throws against the dominate effect.
- A character can jump over the glyph.

### Scene 5: The Baleful Eye

A dolgaunt servant of Belashyrra has come up from Khyber for the Harvest, and is currently leading the cultists in prayer. Drawing on the power of Xoriat, a massive eye is embedded in the wall of this chamber—a mystical warden guarding the passage to Khyber.

**Features of the Area**

**Illumination**: The baleful eye fills the area with bright light.

**Ceiling**: 30 feet high.

**Deep Gate**: This rough patch of floor (marked “T” on the map) conceals a secret entrance into the depths. A DC 15 Perception check made to search the area notes a crack running through the middle of the rough stone.
If two or more creatures wearing holy symbols of the Dragon Below touch the stone for 1 round, or if the baleful eye is destroyed, the crack splits and the stone floor swings wide to reveal a tunnel leading down. The deep gate also opens if the baleful eye is destroyed.

**Treasure**: The cultists carry 60 gp in loose coin, and the dolgaunt wears a platinum bracelet inlaid with images of eyes—slightly disturbing, but worth 110 gp.

> The tunnel opens into a wide cavern chamber whose walls have been painted with pictures of eyes and savage acts of sacrifice. However, far more horrific than these images is the massive living eye embedded in the wall directly across from you—a great golden orb set with twin pupils and a cold, alien gaze. The cavern floor beneath this monstrous apparition is a mottled patch of rough stone.
> Beneath the living idol, a foul creature leads a group of human and orc villagers in a dark rite. Long tentacles rise from the shoulders of this gaunt figure, and its eyes are hollow sockets filled with writhing cilia. Glowing red sigils flow across its gray skin—a match to the markings on the walls of the hall of living words.
> Where the kneeling villagers’ clothes have been stripped off, all bear extra inhuman eyes embedded in their flesh. As the cultists moan and chant, each waves a curved, glittering blade chipped from volcanic glass. However, you see no sign of Doria or of any other exit from the cavern.

**History (DC 15)**: The creature leading the rite is a dolgaunt — a one of the high-ranking servants of the daelkyr.

Unless the PCs draw attention to themselves, the cultists are distracted at the start of combat. Unlike the cultists at the cavern entrance, however, this group cannot be bluffed.

The baleful eye becomes immediately aware when any character not wearing or presenting a holy symbol of the Dragon Below enters the chamber. The PCs can get a surprise round on the cultists, but the eye can act in that surprise round as well.

**Baleful Eye**

The great golden eye turns its twin pupils upon you, its power surging in your mind.

**Trap**: The eye mounted in the wall of the chamber wards the path to Khyber and attacks all but the faithful of the Dragon Below.

**Perception**: No check is required to see the eye.

**Religion or Insight** (DC 15): The character recognizes that the eye is not only a trap but a sensor, scanning the PCs for signs of their faith.

**Trigger**: The eye rolls initiative (+6) when a creature enters the chamber. It continues to attack until there are no valid targets in the area.

**Attack**: Target is the closest creature not wearing or presenting a holy symbol of the Dragon Below. Attack: +8. Hit: 1d6+4 psychic damage. In addition, roll 1d6:

- 1–3: The target is immobilized (DC 16 Wisdom save ends).
- 4–5: The target is dazed until the end of the eye’s next turn.
- 6: The target is dominated and attacks its closest allies until the end of the eye’s next turn.

**Countermeasures:**

- A character who successfully read the walls in Scene 3 gains a +2 bonus against the eye’s attack and to saving throws against its effects.
- A character who attempted to read the walls in Scene 3 and failed takes a –2 penalty against the eye’s attack.
In addition, add 3 to the die roll to determine the effect of the eye’s attack (maximum result 6).
- A character can attack the eye: AC 15, 60 hit points, resistant to all damage. Destroying the eye disables the trap and opens the deep gate.

**Tactics**

The orc warden and the fanatics try to keep the party away from the dolgaunt and the baleful eye, giving the eye time to bring its power to bear on all the PCs. The warden wears a tangler symbiont on its arm. It and the dolgaunt use their immobilization abilities to keep PCs from closing with the eye.

**Development**

After the cultists are defeated, the PCs can proceed through the deep gate (see “Features of the Area”).

<aside>
💡 **Dolgaunt Lore**
These repulsive creatures are grim, emaciated humanoids with disease-hued flesh. Their empty eye sockets gape above a mouth with a protruding, wormlike tongue. Writhing cilia cover their bodies, with longer tendrils around their heads. Two wiry tentacles protrude from their bare shoulders.
A character knows the following information with a successful skill check.
**History DC 20**: Descended from hobgoblins tortured by the daelkyr, the cunning dolgaunts often serve as officers in the terrifying armies of the lords of madness. They speak to one another silently using a kind of tendril sign language, and can sense messages from up to 30 feet away.

</aside>

### Scene 6: The Blood of Khyber

Until this point, the cultists’ secret shrine has been set within natural caverns. Now, the party descends into the
underworld of Khyber — a place twisted by the madness of Xoriat and the darkness of Mabar. The passage down is
narrow, and the PCs must walk single file.

**Features of the Area**

**Illumination**: The glowing pool of the Blood of Khyber sheds dim light within five squares. Due to the proximity of the well of darkness (Scene 7), all sources of light brought into this area are muted. Bright light becomes dim light within the cavern, while dim light sources have their light negated. (Fires are not extinguished by this effect; the darkness of the cavern simply swallows the light they give off.) The light of the Blood of Khyber pool is unaffected.

**The Blood of Khyber**: The glowing pool is filled with a viscous purple liquid. A character who makes a DC 15 Intelligence (Religion or Arcana) check recognizes this as the Blood of Khyber — a mystical fluid that runs through the veins of the underworld. By taking a short rest adjacent to the pool, characters can absorb its ambient energy, gaining the benefit of an extended rest. Once any character takes a short rest adjacent to the pool, its energy is spent. The pool cannot be used again for 24 hours.

**Treasure**: If suitable containers (such as waterskins or empty potion vials) are on hand, the party can collect two potions of healing from the pool (before or after taking a short rest beside it). Between them, the dolgrims carry 60 gp in loose coin and two Khyber dragonshards worth 100 gp each.

> Clambering along this rough, narrow passage seems unpleasantly akin to climbing down the throat of some great beast. The walls are studded with glowing Khyber dragonshards, though so cracked and pitted that they would have no market value. You are forced to walk single file, and in some places to squeeze through narrow gaps. The shaft twists and turns, but always it descends—and the farther you go, the stranger it becomes.
You feel a terrible chill, though your breath does not freeze in the air. Whispers twist around you—mad voices that fade as soon as you try to hear their words. The stone of walls and floor grows soft and spongy. More troubling, your light begins to flicker and dim, seemingly swallowed by the darkness.
> 

The influence of Mabar affects any light sources the PCs are carrying as they approach this chamber. Establish a marching order.

This chamber holds a pool of mystical liquid that can help the PCs recover from their previous battles — once the creatures on guard have been defeated. The four dolgrims here have no reason to fear intruders getting past the baleful eye above. Unless the PCs draw attention to themselves, these guards are distracted.

> The sound of shrill voices rises from ahead as the narrow passage finally widens into a larger cavern. A dim red light flickers within, flaring from a pool of glowing liquid. Two small figures stand on guard at the poolside — goblins by the look of it.
> 

The dolgrims speak Deep Speech, but a PC who recognizes the language can hear that the conversation consists of nothing but inane babble.

**Perception (DC 10)**: Though the creatures on guard appear to be goblins, the flickering light of the pool reveals a horrid headless form with two mouths and four misshapen arms.

**History (DC 15)**: These misshapen creatures are dolgrims — servants of the daelkyr.

**Tactics**

The four dolgrims begin with ranged attacks if they can, using double action to stay out of reach of the PCs. Once melee begins, they fight together, flanking for combat advantage and trying to find positions where it is difficult for the PCs to flank them.

The dolgrims often fall prey to bloodlust. If a bloodied character attempts to flee from a dolgrim, there is an excellent chance that it will pursue, heedless of provoking opportunity attacks and ignoring any penalties associated
with being marked.

While fighting, the dolgrims shout out continuously in Deep Speech, typically criticizing their own actions from the depths of their broken minds.

<aside>
💡 **Dolgrim Lore**
First formed by the merging of two goblins into a single body, the dolgrims are twisted, wretched creatures spawned by the daelkyr. They wear armor of ragged leather, beneath which their skin is covered in a variety of repulsive, corpsewhite tattoos. A dolgrim’s stunted body boasts four arms and a pair of twisted mouths that gibber and slather at the front of its headless torso. On occasion, a dolgrim’s mouths carry on demented conversations and arguments with one another. Despite this, however, dolgrims possess only a single sadistic and bloodthirsty personality.
A character knows the following information with a successful skill check.
**History DC 20**: The daelkyr first created the repulsive dolgrims by combining two tortured goblins into a single body. The two brains of the dolgrim allow it to act with astonishing speed and to resist charm effects, though its shattered consciousness leaves it vulnerable to psychic damage.

</aside>

### Scene 7: The Well of Darkness

This area is the nexus of Mabar’s influence in these caverns— a zone of shadow patrolled by living darkness.

**Features of the Area**

**Illumination**: The powerful influence of Mabar absorbs all light within the well of darkness. A PC carrying a light source can see only his or her own square clearly. Creatures and objects in squares adjacent to the light source have concealment (whether they have light sources of their own or not). Creatures more than 1 square away from each other (as well as creatures that do not have a light source) have total concealment.

**Ceiling**: 20 feet high.

**Broken Terrain**: A plethora of rocks is scattered around the cavern. A PC moving without a light source must succeed on a DC 10 Acrobatics check or fall prone. A PC moving at half speed avoids this check.

**Influence of Mabar**: The energy of Mabar permeates this cavern. Any attack that does necrotic damage gains a +1 bonus to the attack roll. Any attack that does radiant damage takes a –1 penalty to the attack roll.

**Treasure**: When the living darkness is destroyed, it turns to dust. A DC 15 Perception check made to search the area allows the PCs to collect 90 gp worth of residuum from the creature’s remains.

> The chill of the caverns grows stronger — cold fingers that reach deep inside you. The darkness grows deeper with each step, the passage in front of you eventually filled with a haze of pure shadow that no light seems able to banish.
> 

The living darkness uses Stealth to hide within the shadow of the well of darkness (see “Features of the Area”). It
waits until the first PC is adjacent to it, then attacks with surprise.

[https://www.dndbeyond.com/monsters/3024306-living-darkness](https://www.dndbeyond.com/monsters/3024306-living-darkness)

**Tactics**

After some time since the moment PCs enter the room, the living darkness engulfs the character closest to the center:

> The cavern is bathed in a gloom which no light can penetrate. Suddenly, the darkness becomes solid around you.
> 

The living darkness is not supposed to behave in a tactically sound manner. It isn’t able to single out the weakest characters or use the terrain to its advantage.

The living darkness prefers to use Cloud Drift defensively.

The creature cannot leave the darkness of this room. If PCs get close to the edge, it will retreat to remain hidden in the center.

If the living darkness takes radiant damage from a PC’s attack, it flies into a rage and focuses slam attacks on that character. It provokes opportunity attacks or any other penalties necessary to pursue the target.

At the DM’s discretion, the living darkness can release engulfed creatures to go after the enemy if it’s struck with radiant damage.

### Scene 8: The Hungry Room

The servants of the daelkyr stand watch over the path to the prisoners, and the floor itself is set to devour unwary intruders. Unlike their fellows in Scene 6, these guards are alert at all times.

**Features of the Area**

**Illumination**: Worthless Khyber shards embedded in the walls shed dim light throughout the cavern. Due to the proximity of the well of darkness (Scene 7), all sources of light brought into this area are muted. Bright light becomes dim light within the cavern, while dim light sources have their light negated. (Fires are not extinguished by this effect; the darkness of the cavern simply swallows the light they give off.) The light of the Khyber shards in the walls is unaffected.

**Living Floor**: The floor is a mass of slick flesh that shifts and bucks beneath the feet of the PCs. A PC moving at more than half speed must succeed on a DC 10 Acrobatics check or fall prone. The dolgrims and the dolgaunt ignore this effect.

**Treasure**: The dolgrim acolyte wears a coercive gauntlet symbiont that the PCs can claim

> You make your way forward with your newly returned light, the floor and walls of the cavern gleaming as they become increasingly slick and soft — more like flesh than stone. As you approach a large cavern, the slimy floor begins to ripple beneath your feet like a slab of raw muscle. Across the long hall, three dolgrims raise crossbows as a dolgaunt hisses a warning behind them.

**Tactics**

The guardians here know to avoid the hungry mouths, and they rely on ranged attacks for as long as possible. The dolgaunt acolyte uses its maddening whispers and its coercive gauntlet to slide PCs into the hungry mouths. If pressed, or if the fight is going badly, it throws itself at the closest PC with leaching tentacle attacks.

**Hungry Mouths**

As you make your way across the treacherous floor, a fanged maw opens up below you to snap at your feet!

**Trap**: A number of hungry mouths are scattered across the cavern, each occupying a single square.

**Perception DC 10**: The character notices the mouth before entering the square.

**Intelligence (History or Arcana) DC 15**: The character understands the nature of the living floor and can give his or her allies specific advice for avoiding its hazards. All subsequent Perception checks to notice the mouths gain a +2 bonus.

**Attack**: An individual mouth attacks when a creature enters or begins its turn in its space (+5 to hit, reach 0 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (2d6 + 3) piercing damage).

**Countermeasures:**

- This hazard cannot be disabled or delayed — just avoided. A character who makes a DC 10 Athletics check (DC 5 with a running start) can jump over a mouth. However, the living floor makes it difficult to get a running start (see “Features of the Area”).

### Scene 9: Toraash’s Last Stand

The Coat of Eyes occasionally shares visions with its wearer, and the cult leader Toraash is aware of the PCs’ approach. He has chosen this place to make a stand and face them — and he has Doria Veledaar as a hostage.
The PCs cannot gain surprise without approaching unheard and unseen, but Toraash’s passive Perception of 17 makes that a challenge. As soon as he catches sight of a PC in the hall, the cult leader hails them.

**Features of the Area**

**Illumination**: Worthless Khyber shards embedded in the walls shed dim light throughout the cavern.
This area is free of the influence of Mabar. Light sources brought within the chamber illuminate as normal.

> “Outlanders!” The familiar voice of Toraash rings out across the cavern, the village reeve now wearing what appears to be a breastplate crafted of raw muscle, studded with over a dozen blinking eyes. A handful of cultists are scattered around the chamber, their glass knives glittering in the light of the Khyber shards along the walls. A dolgaunt stands with them, tentacles raised like vipers ready to strike. Before the foul creature, Doria Veledaar is bound and gagged, apparently unconscious but held tight in the dolgaunt’s grasp.
> “This futile battle is over,” Toraash says. “Lay down your arms if you wish your friend to live. The Harvest is upon us. Come. Let us show you the blessings of Belashyrra, and teach you to see with new eyes.”

**Tactics**

Toraash and his companions are ready for battle—and to kill Doria if the PCs call his bluff. Doria has only 10 hit points remaining, and the dolgaunt is prepared to kill her with leaching tentacle attacks (assume that the creature automatically hits the unconscious inquisitive). Saving her requires the PCs to somehow push the dolgaunt away, and quickly.
Once battle is started, the cultists focus on the PCs instead of Doria, though she might be targeted by the dolgaunt’s
maddening whispers attack.
The cult fanatics attack lightly armored PCs in pairs, flanking for combat advantage.
Toraash changes up targets to mark as many foes as possible with his watchful eye aura, focusing attacks on him in order to keep the cult fanatics in the fight longer. He uses intimidating presence each round, then follows up with a
greataxe attack against the same (hopefully dazed) target.
The cultist eyeblade focuses its attacks on PCs marked or dazed by Toraash.

**Reinforcements**

Starting in the second round of combat and every two rounds thereafter, two more cult fanatics appear at the mouth of the tunnel at the far end of the cavern. (See Scene 10 for more information.) They join the fray on the same initiative as the other cult fanatics.

**Development**

The cult forces fight to the death. When Toraash falls, he cries out “His eye! His eye will be upon you!” As he collapses, the Coat of Eyes releases from his corpse and crawls a few feet away of its own accord. The PCs can see where it was bound to Toraash’s bare flesh, the orc’s skin shredded as the symbiont’s tendrils pulled free.

### Scene 10: Soul Prison

The final challenge of the adventure is to disable the soul prison—a horrid eldritch machine transforming the villagers of Blackroot into servants of the daelkyr.

**Features of the Area**

**Illumination**: Bright light.

**Treasure**: Most of the Khyber shards in the villager’s prisons are worthless, but the PCs can liberate a total of ten shards worth 100 gp each.

> Narrow alcoves line the walls of this chamber — coffins lined with pulsing Khyber shards. Some of these hold terrified villagers sealed behind panes of crystal. A crystal outcropping stands in the center of the room, surrounded by flowing sigils like those seen in the Hall of Living Words above.

Twenty-four villagers originally occupied the cells. How many remain depends on how many appeared in Encounter 9. The members of Doria’s family are in slots 6 (her father), 12 (her mother), and 16–19. The PCs must destroy the eldritch machine that is drawing out the villagers’ souls before it’s too late.

The soul prison (the crystal outcropping) goes dormant while the PCs undertake the skill challenge. However, if
they don’t do so in a timely fashion, have the prison create a new pair of cult fanatics from villagers every 2 rounds.

**Stopping the Soul Prison**

> Purple light flows around the crystal outcropping — glyphs that mark those souls the eldritch machine has trapped.
> 

The characters must disrupt the eldritch energy of the soul prison.

**Complexity**: 8 successes before 3 failures

**Special**: The eldritch energy of the soul prison runs unchecked through this area. Each time a character makes a failed skill check in the challenge, he or she takes 3d6 psychic damage.

**Investigation** (DC 10): By sensing the flow of mystical energy within the crystal, the PC can disrupt it.

**Athletics** (DC 12): By shattering one of the crystalline panes, the PC disables a cell and allows the villager within to safely escape.

**Arcana** (DC 15): The PC manipulates the power of Khyber to staunch the prison’s flow of eldritch energy.

**Religion** (DC 12): By countering the dark magic of the Dragon Below, the PC’s blessings help to break the soul prison’s power.

**Dexterity** (Sleight of Hand) DC 10 or **Intelligence** (Thief’s Tools) DC 10: By damaging the workings of the crystal cells, the PC helps disable the prison.

**Investigation** (DC 5): The PC studies the prison and its symbols, searching for flaws and patterns. Using this skill does not count as a success or failure in the skill challenge. With a successful check, the next skill check made in the challenge gains a +2 bonus.

**Success**: The light fades from the crystal as the flow of blood-red sigils flares and vanishes. These once-trapped lost souls can pass on to Dolurrh and whatever lies beyond. With the threat of the prison ended, the remaining villagers can be freed.

**Failure**: The prison is shut down, but doing so unleashes a final blast of eldritch energy that deals 4d6 force damage to each PC in the chamber.

### Conclusion

With Toraash defeated and the survivors freed, the threat to Blackroot is ended. When the conjunction between Mabar and Xoriat ends in a few hours, the deep gate (see Scene 5) will close and stay sealed for decades. Any
surviving cultists are freed from the influence of Khyber and can return to their lives. A concealed staircase leads to a well-concealed secret entrance outside, on the back side of the cave.

**What’s Next?**

Whether the PCs were sent to find the Coat of Eyes or not, they need to decide if they want to take it in the aftermath of the adventure. Regardless, the Coat of Eyes remains tied to the daelkyr Belashyrra. Consider the following possibilities.

- The daelkyr have no desire to see the world fall to the Dreaming Dark or the Lords of Dust. Though Belashyrra
remains as rapacious as all of his kind, he might offer guidance through the Coat to help the PCs defeat other forces of evil.
- The Coat might give its bearer visions of wonders deep within Khyber, suggesting places the PCs could explore. This could be a source of adventure, but what motivates the artifact?
- The Coat and its wearer have roles to play in the Prophecy. Both the dragons of the Chamber and the Lords of Dust might try to gain the PCs’ favor—or to control them.

<aside>
💡 **Symbiont Lore**
A character knows the following information with a successful skill check.
**History or Arcana DC 7**: Symbionts are living tools created by the foul spawn of Khyber. Although disturbing in appearance, they are not inherently evil. A symbiont bonds to the flesh of its wearer, though it can be released when the wearer wishes it.
**History or Arcana DC 12**: A symbiont draws sustenance from its host creature, which gives of its own vitality when the item is used.
**History or Arcana DC 17**: Tales say that the symbionts were created by the powerful beings known as the daelkyr. While harmless to aberrant creatures, symbionts are said to sometimes turn their power against other types of creatures that wield them.

</aside>

**Coat of Eyes**
Armor (studded leather), very rare (requires attunement)

While wearing this armor, you gain a +1 bonus to AC, and you can speak and understand Deep Speech. In addition, you gain resistance to poison and psychic damage.

**Alien Sight**. As an action, you can attune to symbiont’s heightened senses. It makes you more perceptive, but the influence of its alien thoughts makes it more difficult for you to understand others. For next hour, this contact grants you advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks but disadvantage on Wisdom (Insight) checks. Once you use this feature, you can’t use it again until the next dawn.

**Disguise**. As a bonus action, you can change the appearance of the Coat of Eyes so it looks like mundane hide armor. The symbiont will attempt to change back if near something of interest (and will be displeased if not allowed to do so).

**The Eye of the Storm**. The Coat of Eyes wants to observe important events. This desire could put the wearer at risk, possibly forbidding him from escape.

**Symbiotic Nature**. The Coat is a symbiont item that bonds to the wearer’s flesh when it is donned. The Coat of Eyes can’t be removed from you while you’re attuned to it, and you can’t voluntarily end your attunement to it. If you’re targeted by a spell that ends a curse, your attunement to the Coat of Eyes ends, and it detaches from your body.

The Coat of Eyes communicates its desires through strange whispers and bursts of alien emotion that surge in the
wearer’s mind. The wearer feels the Coat’s pleasure when it observes something interesting through him or her, but feels its fury if the wearer intentionally avoids sights or experiences that the Coat deems worthy. Occasionally, the wearer feels the presence of another mind, seemingly held within his own: perhaps Belashyrra, gazing out through his creation.

**Concordance**

Starting Score: 5
Owner gains a level: +1d4
Owner observes an event of interest to Belashyrra (maximum 1/day): +1
Owner discovers a Prophecy Mark +1
Owner kills a Gatekeeper druid (maximum 1/encounter) +1
Owner covers the Coat of Eyes (initial action, and every hour it remains covered) -1

**Pleased** (16-20). You gain resistance to the necrotic damage. As an action, you can give yourself a blindsight 15 feet for a 10 minutes (you can’t use this trait again until you finish a long rest).

> “Soon I will know all that I need.”

**Satisfied** (12-15). The bonus to AC granted by the artifact increases to +2.

> “I hunger for more knowledge.”

**Normal** (5-11). The Coat of Eyes is hungry to see new and important things, and its wearer can feel the artifact’s desire.

> “Show me what this world has to offer.”

**Unsatisfied** (1-4). You have disadvantage on Wisdom (Perception) and Wisdom (Insight) checks. Additionally, you lose resistance to psychic damage normally granted by the artifact.

> “Do not hide your secrets from me.”

**Angered** (0 or lower). You gain vulnerability to psychic damage.

> “You take my sight? I will take your life!”

**Moving On**

> “Together, we have seen all that can be seen.”

Belashyrra has seen enough of the world through the wearer’s eyes, and he wishes to sever the connection before the character grows too powerful.
When the wearer next gains a level, the eyes that stud the Coat wither, leaving a suit of +2 deathcut leather or +2
deathcut hide. In addition, the wearer gains a permanent +1 bonus to Perception checks but takes a permanent –1 penalty to Insight checks—along with the eerie sensation that Belashyrra is still using his or her eyes to lsee the world.
If the Coat of Eyes moved on because it was unsatisfied with the user, the armor crumbles into worthless dust.

Based on *Khyber’s Harvest* by Keith Baker.