#adventure #completed [[Mordain’s Hall]] [[Mordain the Fleshweaver]]

The Coat of Eyes, if listened to by the party, will lead them toward the center of the Forest of Flesh, where a large tower made out of the flesh of a black dragon can be found. This is where Mordain the Fleshweaver resides, who seeks the power of the Coat of Eyes.

**Features of the Area**
**Illumination**: Fleshy bioluminescent orbs function as lanterns that hang in various locations on the walls.
**Ceilings**: 12 feet high.
**Walls and Floors**: The walls appear to be made of flesh, and the floors are carpet made of fur/hair. There are no windows.

### Scene 1: Mordain Appears

The tower door is locked, requiring a DC 18 Sleight of Hand check (adding proficiency if done with Thieves’ Tools).

When the players first enter the Tower of Mordain, the Fleshweaver himself appears to greet them. He doesn’t feel threatened by them, since he’s much more powerful, and is attracted to the power emanating from the relic that the party brought up from Khyber, the Coat of Eyes.

The mage rushes at each of the party members, requiring a DC 20 Dexterity saving throw from each. On a failure, the Fleshweaver manages to snatch a piece of flesh from the PC’s body. This will be used to make a simulacrum of each party member that failed, so be sure to note each success and failure.

Immediately after this, Mordain rushes out of the room through the only other door, which closes much like a sphincter. The players may force open the door (DC 20 Strength), use some sort of magical spell, or another method to open or get past the door (AC 18, 20 HP). When they do so, a stairwell is found on the other side, leading further up the tower.

### Scene 2: Ascending the Tower

**Floor 2**: Pet Mimics

This room contains three chest mimics (made of flesh) being pet shamed - named bitey (no arms or legs, just big teeth and an even bigger tongue), punchy (only big strong muscular arms), and kicky (only long feminine legs). The signs for the pet shaming say "I like to switch around signs." (bitey), "I like to hide daddy's keys." (punchy), and “I always lie.” (kicky). The only door leading out of the room is locked, and requires a key they presumably know the location of to unlock. The trick is that each of them will give a different location for the keys, and at least one of them is always lying (and the party won’t know which one, since the signs have been switched).

Bitey is actually the one who always lies, and tells the party the keys are located in a dark hole in the wall nearby. If a player sticks their hand in the hole, they take 1d8 piercing damage from a needle inside. Failure on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw also results in 1d12 poison damage.

Kicky is the one who hides the keys and knows the real location. They are actually in Kicky’s mouth, and will require either a Persuasion/Intimidation check (DC 18) to convince them to give them up, or for the party to defeat the trio of mimics in battle.

Punchy is the one who switches around signs, and so can be convinced to to give the true sign placements if Persuaded or Intimidated with a successful DC 15 check. If asked for the key location, he says he doesn’t know, and is pretty sure that Bitey doesn’t know either.

Unlocking the door with the key reveals another staircase leading up.

**Floor 3**: Gelatinous Roombas

This appears to be a study of some sort, and there is little of interest here save for a fireplace (which looks like a mouth, complete with teeth) and some bookshelves (made of flesh instead of wood). Two small gelatinous cubes scoot around the room, picking up any dirt or debris into their body. One is orange and smells of citrus, and the other is green and smells of pine.

A spiral staircase can be seen here out in the open.

**Floor 4**: Living Quarters

You enter what appears to be an open living area. What looks like a bed is positioned in the corner - but wait - is that bed actually a giant tongue?! A large rectangular blue Gelatinous Cube sits in another corner of the room, filled with what appears to be various food stuffs, and flanked by kitchen-like items and another mouth fireplace. A third corner holds a large leather wingback chair with a fleshy bioluminescent orb floor lantern next to it.

The only doorway out of the room appears to have teeth. If the players get too close to the door (within 10 feet), it chomps down, effectively closing. It will open back up if the players move 10 or more feet away. In order to get past, the players will need to succeed in a DC 15 Dexterity check to dash at their full speed, hold open the door in some way, or use magic or some other clever technique to get to the other side. Past the door is another staircase leading up.

### Scene 3: Mordain and the Simulacra

When the players enter the room, they will see Mordain on an elevated platform (20 feet up) behind several tanks containing simulacra. Any party members who had skin taken in Scene 1 breaks out from the tanks and start attacking.

**Tactics: Mordain**

| d8 | Action | Comments |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | Detect Thoughts / Encode Thoughts | 1 target, determined by d6 roll, in initiative order |
| 2 | Cause Fear | 2 targets, determined by d6 rolls, in initiative order |
| 3 | Crown of Madness | 1 target, determined by d6 roll, in initiative order |
| 4 | Hold Person | 1 target, determined by d6 roll, in initiative order |
| 5 | Mind Thrust | 1 target, determined by d6 roll, in initiative order |
| 6 | Wither and Bloom | 1 target, determined by d6 roll, in initiative order; heal simulacrum with least HP |
| 7 | Puppet | 1 target, determined by d6 roll, in initiative order; force that player to move toward the exit |
| 8 | Teleport | 1 simulacrum is teleported to the platform with Mordain; 1 turn later, an elevator in the floor moves the simulacrum down out of sight (which takes another full turn to complete) |

Mordain will not leave the platform, and will instead cast a number of spells in an attempt to draw information from the player characters, or force them to leave. He should focus on any party members who AREN’T represented as a simulacrum (if there are any) as these PCs can be used as doppelgangers later in the adventure, which could be fun.

- He can start by casting Detect Thoughts (30 foot range, Wisdom save to not probe deeper), and then follow that with Encode Thoughts on his next turn. This encoded “thought strand” will be moved into the appropriate simulacrum if cast on a party member who has one, or captured by Mordain if cast on a party member without one (to be used on a simulacrum later).
- Cause Fear (2nd level)
    - Casting Time: 1 action
    Range: 60 feet
    Components: V
    Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
    - You awaken the sense of mortality in two creatures (within 30 feet of each other) you can see within range. A construct or an undead is immune to this effect. The targets must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or become frightened of you until the spell ends. The frightened targets can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.
- Crown of Madness
    - Casting Time: 1 action
    Range: 120 feet
    Components: V, S
    Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
    - One humanoid of your choice that you can see within range must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or become charmed by you for the duration. While the target is charmed in this way, a twisted crown of jagged iron appears on its head, and a madness glows in its eyes.
    - The charmed target must use its action before moving on each of its turns to make a melee attack against a creature other than itself that you mentally choose. The target can act normally on its turn if you choose no creature or if none are within its reach.
    - On your subsequent turns, you must use your action to maintain control over the target, or the spell ends. Also, the target can make a Wisdom saving throw at the end of each of its turns. On a success, the spell ends.
- Hold Person
    - Casting Time: 1 action
    Range: 60 feet
    Components: V, S, M (a small, straight piece of iron)
    Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
    - Choose a humanoid that you can see within range. The target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or be paralyzed for the duration. At the end of each of its turns, the target can make another Wisdom saving throw. On a success, the spell ends on the target.
- Mind Thrust
    - Casting Time: 1 bonus action
    Range: 60 feet
    Components: V, S
    Duration: 1 round
    - You thrust a lance of psychic disruption into the mind of one creature you can see within range. The target must make an Intelligence saving throw. On a failed save, the target takes 3d6 psychic damage, and it can’t take a reaction until the end of its next turn. Moreover, on its next turn, it must choose whether it gets a move, an action, or a bonus action; it gets only one of the three. On a successful save, the target takes half as much damage and suffers none of the spell’s other effects.
- Wither and Bloom
    - Casting Time: 1 action
    Range: 60 feet
    Components: V, S, M (a withered vine twisted into a loop)
    Duration: Instantaneous
    - You invoke both death and life upon a 10-foot-radius sphere centered on a point within range. Each creature of your choice in that area must make a Constitution saving throw, taking 2d6 necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Nonmagical vegetation in that area withers.
    - In addition, one creature of your choice in that area can spend and roll one of its unspent Hit Dice and regain a number of hit points equal to the roll plus your spellcasting ability modifier.
- Puppet
    - Casting Time: 1 action
    Range: 120 feet
    Components: V
    Duration: Instantaneous
    - Your gesture forces one humanoid you can see within range to make a Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the target must move up to its speed in a direction you choose. In addition, you can cause the target to drop whatever it is holding. This spell has no effect on a humanoid that is immune to being charmed.

> Mordain: "Aren't you happy? I improved you!"
> 

**Tactics: Simulacra**

The simulacra have half the HP, but same AC and other stats, and are able to use the same actions, bonus actions, and reactions (except weapons, where they use Claw or their Symbiont ability instead) as the player characters. They are constructs rather than humanoids, and also have a few additional abilities - as a result of Mordain’s use of both troll blood and symbionts.

- **Regeneration**. The simulacrum regains 10 hit points at the end of its turn. If the simulacrum takes acid or fire damage, this trait doesn't function at the end of that turn. The simulacrum dies only if it end its turn with 0 hit points and doesn't regenerate.
- **Claw**. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) slashing damage.
- **Symbiont**. Roll on the table below to determine which symbiont the simulacrum is attuned to.

[https://wrightmat.github.io/dnd/dice.htm?roll=d6](https://wrightmat.github.io/dnd/dice.htm?roll=d6)

| d6 | Symbiont |
| --- | --- |
| 1 | None |
| 2 | Tangler |
| 3 | Tongueworm |
| 4 | Stormstalk |
| 5 | Wintercyst |
| 6 | Spellwurm |

**Development**

The players are able to leave the tower at any time, as the door they came in from is wide open. If taken previously, the Coat of Eyes is also sitting in front of Mordain on the elevated platform, so if a party member is able to get near it and succeed in a DC 15 Sleight of Hand check, they could grab it. Failure causes Mordain to see them, and he casts Puppet on them (with disadvantage on the save). If they manage to take out the simulacra, Mordain casts Hold Person on all of them (with disadvantage on the save), and then Teleport to whisk them outside of the tower, back to the Forest of Flesh.

Any simulacra that either weren’t seen or weren’t killed, could be used later as doppelgangers of the party members, to wreak havoc on some area of Khorvaire.

[https://www.reddit.com/r/Eberron/comments/uy6ewi/help_mordains_hall/](https://www.reddit.com/r/Eberron/comments/uy6ewi/help_mordains_hall/)

[https://www.enworld.org/threads/the-fleshweaver-my-pcs-ideas-requested.192615/](https://www.enworld.org/threads/the-fleshweaver-my-pcs-ideas-requested.192615/)