#adventure #completed [[Xen’drik]] [[Stormreach]]

### **Background**

The party has been searching out components for their spelljamming ship, based on the Project Siberys notebook they found in Making, and the only known location for Siberys dragonshards (needed for the control device) is Xen’drik. Stormreach is the only real port town that’s accessible to outsiders, and luckily rumors have been circulating about strange lights and sounds eminating from what’s rumored to be a former Giant city called Throne Gate Ruins.

### **Hook(s)**

Any of the following hooks can be peppered in to Xen’drik as the players explore or stock up.

- A rival explorer has been loudly proclaiming that she has uncovered a map to a buried treasure. According to the author's scribbles, it could drown Stormreach in gold. You must race to find it first!
- A drow prisoner warns of a great power hidden in a pyramid known as Grendu'ul - it must be destroyed before the prophesied return!
- Elves in Stormreach have been cursed with recurring visions while they they trance. Each time, a faceless authority calls its subjects to its palace at Grendu'ul.
- A series of earthquakes have been causing damage to a prospector's camp just outside Stormreach. He suspects a beast lurks in the jungles, and asks our heroes to make hunters of themselves.
- Four nights ago, a great red beacon lit the skies south of Stormreach. What power might it signal? What wealth?
- A small chest recently came up at auction. It belonged to an explorer from about one hundred years ago. Contained
are the notes, journals, and maps of an expedition. After heavy losses they were forced to turn back to civilization. They intended to return but the Last War broke out and all the expedition members died in the war. This chest was passed down one explorer's family, but the granddaughter is more interested in a quick payday and auctioned it off rather than go risk her life in a jungle

### **Synopsis**

- Xen’drik is a good sized dock city with a variety of services. If they players ask around, implant one or two of the above adventure hooks. If they don’t, then use the Circle of Visions to show them an image a colossal construct marching toward the city.
- The players are able to explore an old ruin (ziggurat, obelisk, forum, and waterfall) before being attacked by two titanic dinosaurs. After they’re defeated, the ruins awaken and raise from the ground, beginning a march toward Stormreach.
- The players will need to get inside the colossus in order to stop it, first by grabbing a hand or foot, then by climbing an arm or leg, and finally by climbing the body (and avoiding some defenses) in order to find their way inside. All of this happens while the colossus is actively performing actions against the party.
- Inside, hazards and automated repair drones threaten the party if they’re not careful. But eventually they will find their way to the Giant’s Chamber where they will need to kill the giant controlling the colossus in order to obtain the Siberys shard controlling it.

### Scene 1: Awakening

> Finally, after weeks of struggle and difficult travel through harsh jungle, you stand among the ruins of the lost ziggurat of Grendu'ul. But the pyramid itself is surrounded by archaeological treasures. On the opposite side of a forum, swallowed by trees and vines, a great obelisk reaches 30 feet into the sky. Toppled walls and broken columns frame the edge of the forum, defining the boundary of this ancient site, and a gentle waterfall cascades down the south side of the pyramid.
> 

The ruins provide a few opportunities to foreshadow the danger of the colossus, and a little of its history. Allow the players to explore its surface features until interest begins to wane, then kick-down-the-door with a combat encounter.

**Exploring the Ruins**

There are four main features for the players to investigate: the ziggurat, the forum, the obelisk, and the waterfall:

**Ziggurat**. The stone walls of the ziggurat are decorated with bas-relief carvings in varying degrees of wear, having been weathered or damaged by the overgrowth of vines and other plant life. The surviving reliefs depict richly decorated figures lording over their much smaller subjects, who are bowed in respect. A character who succeeds on a DC 15 Intelligence (History) check can identify the larger figures as belonging to the civilization of lost titans (Giants), who dominated this continent in ages past. The smaller figures must be the elf slaves their society kept. However, a character who succeeds on a DC 20 Intelligence (Investigation) check can find even smaller figures, each barely a scratch in the stone. In truth, the larger figures aren't depicting Giants, but the colossus buried beneath the player characters' feet. They might tell the story of the colossus' past battles, or they might reveal that there are many similar constructs buried throughout the jungle.

**Obelisk**. A 5 ft. diameter golden disc is embedded in one of the stone obelisk's sides. Like the ziggurat steps, there are relief carvings in the obelisk's stone surface. Here, they depict the Sun reaching out from the golden disk to touch the towers of some ancient city. There are many humanoid figures carved into the city towers - some fleeing, some praying, and some in hopeless embrace. A DC 18 Intelligence (History) check can reveal that the figures are younger than the original carvings of the Sun and the city. A roll of 20 or more on the same check can identify their style as drow and thri-kreen additions to the original Giant artwork. These newer carvings represent a warning to their own kind of the dangers buried here.

**Forum**. The stretch between the ziggurat and the obelisk is solid stone buried beneath a foot of soil. A DC 16 Intelligence (Investigation) or Intelligence (History) check will reveal an unusual dearth of artifacts that would mark this space as a frequently used public space. No coins, no tools, no goods, and yet no obvious sign that they have been removed by previous explorers. The ground here must have been undisturbed for millennia.

**Waterfall**. A waterfall has formed on the south side of the ziggurat, falling from a gap on the upper level and down to jungle-level as it cascades down the Giant-sized steps. Excepting magical means, the source of the waterfall is the most likely point of entry into the heart of the colossus. The gap is about 3 feet tall and is blocked by vines and crumbled rock. It is inaccessible without spending time to clear the debris. However, the awakening of the colossus will partially clear it for direct entry.

**Attack of the Titans**

Once the players have had a chance to explore the ruins, read or paraphrase the following:

> A tremor sounds in the earth, and then another. A ripple spreads across the scattered puddles of water with every thump as they speed up. A roar cuts through the jungle as the titans appear - one crests the ziggurat, its mate emerges beside the obelisk. Mighty jaws dripping in anticipation of their meal, they thunder into pursuit.
> 

A hunting pair of **swordtooth titans** (known to scholars as Tyrannosaurus Rex, use that stat block) have followed the player characters' scent to the ziggurat. Confident in their next meal, they attack fiercely and without hesitation.

Note: Feel free to adjust this encounter as needed. High-level players might have abilities to end the fight very quickly, such as the spell dominate beast, which is totally fine. Or lower level characters may struggle, in which case one of the titans could run away. The purpose of this encounter is to let your players flex their muscles and for you to fake out how this adventure is likely to progress.

When the titans have been defeated, read the following:

> Beaten and bloodied, the last of the titan falls against the stone ruins, shaking the ground as it collapses. The dust settles on the ruins as a pool of red spreads from the behemoth’s corpse
> 

Allow a beat for reactions, perhaps a moment to collect a trophy from the dinosaurs. When your players have had just enough time feel like the danger has passed, read:

> Several pebbles tumble from the ruins as the earth shakes beneath your feet, echoing the fall of the titan. It shakes again, this time with more force, and a cloud of dust rises from the ancient stone. After a moment more, a noise - a roar? - sounds with a deep bass timbre, like a great tuba blaring a deafening but musical blast. It resonates on, fading into forever.
The ground beneath your feet shifts in quake, as a great red light erupts from the face of the obelisk - the carved sun a great eye in crimson, staring unlidded.
The soil parts, tearing and churning as the ziggurat, the obelisk... the whole ruin lifts from the ground, rising into the sky as it unfolds in humanoid form. Worn from millennia in slumber, the colossus’s joints are staggered and crumbling. As it reaches its full four hundred feet, tearing its legs from the broken ground, its left arm cracks, fails, and crashes into the jungle canopy.
> 

The player characters must avoid the cascade of earth and the tumbling colossus arm. Each much make a DC 16 Strength (Athletics) or Dexterity (Acrobatics) check (each player's choice). You may ask each player how their character avoids the debris to justify their skill choice. For example, a success with an Athletics roll might consist of deflecting, pushing and lifting debris with sheer might. A success with an Acrobatics roll might consist of dodging falling debris or squeezing through gaps. On a failed check, a character takes 13 (2d12) bludgeoning damage and is restrained by rock and earth. They can free themselves with a DC 18 Strength (Athletics) or Dexterity (Acrobatics) check.

A character that beats the Strength (Athletics) or Dexterity (Acrobatics) check DC by 10 or more manages to hold on to the rising colossus, and can be considered to be clinging to vines at the ziggurat's top.

Before any characters have a chance to free themselves, set the stakes by reading the following:

> The obelisk eye, now crowning the colossus, scans the horizon. Fixed in the direction of the city of Stormreach, the collosus begins to march.
> 

### Scene 2: Ascent

During Scene 2: Ascent and Scene 3: Ingress, the colossus can take up to two actions every round as detailed in the "Colossus Actions" below.

<aside>
💡 **Colossus Actions**

At Initiative count 10, the colossus takes the following action:
**Quake Step**. All creatures within 200 feet of the colossus, including any creature standing on or within it, must succeed on a DC 16 Dexterity saving throw or fall prone. If an affected creature is restrained by fallen rock or debris, they take 13 (2d12) bludgeoning damage on a failed save.

At Initiative count 0, the colossus takes one of the follow actions.
**Sunbeam Cataclysm**. The colossus blasts arcane power in a 2000 ft. line that is 20 ft. wide. Each creature in that line must make a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw, taking 42 (12d6) radiant damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.
**Gigaton Swat**. The colossus slams its enormous palm over an area with a radius of 20 ft. Each creature in that area must make a DC 18 Constitution saving throw, taking 42 (5d12+10) bludgeoning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.

</aside>

It is possible that one or more of the player characters can bypass this part of the challenge very quickly. Spells like *dimension door* or *tree stride* can cover the necessary distance in a single round without much challenge, while spells like *fly* can avoid the need for some skill checks. Be a fan of your player characters and let it happen.

Characters that do not have access to these abilities, or those that can't be taken for a ride with their companions, will have to climb the colossus in the old fashioned way, suffering the attacks of the colossus all the while. Be generous with non-magical characters that wish to use mundane items or maneuvers to help with the ascent. Reward creativity with Advantage, Inspiration or even automatic progression to the next hazard.

**Part 1: Foot**. In order to begin the ascent, a character might opt to grab the colossus' foot when it steps. A character can move into the path of the colossus' march and ready an action to grab a foot when the colossus uses the quake step action.
Holding on while the foot rises again will require a DC 15 Strength (Athletics) check. On a failure, the character falls
(1d6 x 10) ft. back to the jungle floor. At the end of a fall, a creature takes 1d6 bludgeoning damage for every 10 feet it fell, to a maximum of 20d6. The creature lands prone, unless it avoids taking damage from the fall.

**Part 1:** **Hand**. A character might also opt to begin their ascent by grabbing a hand or finger when the colossus reaches for them. A character can ready an action to grab a hand when the colossus uses the gigaton swat action. Slipping into position to be carried along with the hand will require a DC 15 Dexterity (Acrobatics) check. On a failure, the character falls (1d6 x 10) ft. back to the jungle floor. At the end of a fall, a creature takes 1d6 bludgeoning damage for every 10 feet it fell, to a maximum of 20d6. The creature lands prone, unless it avoids taking damage from the fall.

**Part 2: Arm or Leg**. The arms and legs of the colossus are covered in vines, earth and broken rock, but their movement through the air makes the climb hazardous. A character can make progress on the climb by succeeding on a DC 14 Strength (Athletics) check. With two successes, a character can climb up to the body. However, stalling can give the colossus more time to awaken its defenses. Each time a character fails their ability check to climb (or otherwise fails to make upward progress), add one additional small repair drone to their later climb up the body, and read the following:

> Though you are tossed and turned by the construct's limbs, you spy movement on the underside of its body. The stone shifts and cracks in rectangular patterns, leaving some blocks hanging loose.
> 

**Part 3: Body**. At this point, the colossus' pitted and weathered body and the lack of limb movement make it very easy to climb the final 60 ft. (DC 8). However, while the player characters make this last part of the ascent, they are set upon by the colossus' magical defenses. For each character that climbs the body, two small repair drones will appear to menace the intruder. Read or paraphrase the following:

> The crumbling stones in the colossus' frame unfold into a pair of jittery spider-like constructs. Glyphs glow into life on their bodies, and each extends a pair of bronze needles from their forward limbs. The light of some arcane core emanates from the cracks in their ancient masonry.
> 

The repair drones' weapons are not much threat. However, they will use their Purge Parasite action to hinder the climb. Each time this ability causes a character to fall, they slide 20 ft. toward the base of the body. A character cannot slide below 0 ft.; there they can easily brace themselves against the limb joints or pelvis. Ultimately, the drones are buying time for the colossus to smash the characters.

When all player characters have made it to the top of the colossus, they must next find a way inside to shut it down.

*Prone while Climbing?*

The colossus' quake step action can cause creatures to fall prone while they are climbing the construct's outer surfaces. In the usual case, the prone condition does the following:

- A prone creature’s only Movement option is to crawl, unless it stands up and thereby ends the condition.
- The creature has disadvantage on Attack rolls.
- An Attack roll against the creature has advantage if the attacker is within 5 feet of the creature. Otherwise, the Attack roll has disadvantage.

A prone creature that is climbing is considered to be clinging tightly to the wall, caught in their climbing gear, or otherwise restricted. A climbing creature cannot crawl while climbing, but can "stand up" by finding more secure hand or footholds, or untangling their climbing gear

### Scene 3: Ingress

When the player characters have stable footing, they must find a way inside the colossus if they are to shut it down. With the obelisk revealed as one of the colossus' most powerful weapons, only the ziggurat has yet to reveal its secrets. Some player characters may have magic means of entry, but if not they can find their way via the ziggurat's waterfall, which emerges at the very top step. Several methods are discussed below:

**Ziggurat Waterfall**. Water cascades down the south side of the ziggurat. Though it had pooled and streamed away from the ruins while the colossus was at rest, it now pours out into the jungle canopy. The water emerges from a gap on side of the upper-most tier. Before the colossus emerged it had become overgrown with plant life. Now, the shift has cleared much of the entrance. A 5 ft. wide tunnel can be uncovered by dealing 20 points of slashing or fire damage to the vines.
Doing so will attract the ire of the colossus. Although it cannot reach the far side of the ziggurat with the obelisk blast, it will use the colossus action gigaton swat on that turn even if it had used that action on the previous turn.

With the plants cleared, the player characters find that the water emerges from small gaps in the floor to flow in two
directions: out toward the outside world, and deeper into the tunnels.

**Transmutation**. A skilled transmuter might be able to create their own path into the heart of the construct. Spells such as *disintegrate* and *stone shape* can open a path into the tunnels from the forum or the ziggurat. Transmute rock may cause portions of the ziggurat to rapidly collapse due to rushing water. If a spellcaster is willing to expend some of their most powerful spells, *etherealness* will allow them to phase through the colossus' walls without issue.

**Teleportation**. The spell *dimension door* allows characters to transport themselves and others to a location that they cannot see. A character can reach the internal tunnels of the colossus by teleporting 10 ft. downward from the forum, or they may reach the giant's sanctum by teleporting 60-120 ft. downward. However, teleporting blindly carries risks. A creature attempting this method has a 50% chance of instead teleporting into a solid stone wall, causing them and any creature traveling with them to take 4d6 force damage, before returning them to their original position.

**Divination**. If a spellcaster wishes to explore remotely, *arcane eye* or *clairvoyance* can help. However, be aware that *clairvoyance* has significant casting time. A character must find a shelter from the colossus' sunbeam cataclysm and gigaton swat to cast a ritual.

**Tunnels**

When the player character make their way inside, read the following:

> A tunnel little more than 10 feet wide leads deeper inside the construct. A shallow river runs along the tunnel floor, and pulses of red and blue light illuminate arcane glyphs etched into the stone walls.
> 

If the player characters perform an un-subtle means of entry into the tunnels, they will soon be set upon by the the
colossus' larger, more dangerous defense drones. In that case, read the following:

> A many-legged construct extracts itself from the tunnel walls; its hulking form almost completely blocks your path into the depths. A sticky liquid drips from its needles, smoking as it strikes the stone and water. A chorus of metal striking stone warns of further threat before a multitude of smaller drones skitter around their larger cousin.
> 

Otherwise, player character that enter the tunnels quietly or suddenly might be able to catch the drones unawares. The largest repair drone has a passive Perception of 15. If a player character beats that value with a Dexterity (Stealth) check or otherwise, they can get the jump on the repair drones. In that case, the drones will be applying their repair goo to slowly mend the cracks in the ancient stone.

On identifying a threat, the repair drones are quick to organize and strike. The player characters must face one large repair drone, one (or two for more challenge) medium repair drones, and four small repair drones. The minor constructs will attempt to surround the player characters and will not stop until they are disabled or destroyed. Only the small drones will pursue fleeing invaders - the medium and large drones have important repairs to make.

There are two important hazards in the tunnels:

**Running Water**. If a creature starts their turn in the tunnels while prone, they must succeed on a DC 12 Strength saving throw or be carried 20 feet further into the colossus' vaults. Hostile creatures may use their reaction to make an opportunity attack against a character that is carried by the water.

**Arcane Arteries**. Glyphs run the full length of the tunnels. Some are in disrepair, while others still glow with power. Whenever a spell targets a creature or area within 5 feet of any given wall section, the arcane glyphs in that area begin to glow. If arcane glyphs are already glowing in a given area, they overcharge and explode. Creatures within 10 feet must succeed on a DC 12 Dexterity save or take 11 (2d10) force damage.

When the player characters have defeated all the repair drones, they can keep following the running water toward the heart of the colossus.

*A Short Rest?*

This adventure contains three or four combat encounters with increasing difficulty. It is possible to run through the full expedition without a break. However, if your player characters are running low on resources after defeating the colossus' more formidable internal defenses, they might suggest stopping to rest. Because the colossus can swat or blast creatures on its outer surfaces, the only suitable place to rest is inside the tunnels. Allowing a brief respite before the characters encounter the primordial giant at the colossus' core can lead to a more fun and satisfying final battle, but it may dampen any sense of urgency.

### Scene 4: Disruption

When the players have completed Scene 3: Ingress and followed the tunnel as far as it will go, read the following:

> The tunnel opens into a vast chamber. The water beneath your feet cascades as a waterfall into a plunge pool, and beyond the water's edge, the guts of the colossus are lit dimly by glowing runes. Four ten foot tall stone cylinders are situated about the room: two emerge from the ground, and two emerge from opposite walls. Though three rotate, grinding stone on stone, the cylinder on the left wall is still.
In the center of the room, atop a stone platform with an embedded golden crystal, and bathing the whole chamber in a golden glow, is a 20 foot diameter bubble with a chaotic pattern of swirls dancing on its surface. Inside, frozen with arms wide, is the shadow of a woman at least four times the height of a grown human.
> 

**The Giant's Chamber**

This chamber once served as the control point for the colossus. Its pilot was a Giant born of a civilization now lost to time. During its last awakening, the colossus marched on the city of Stormreach to clear the corruption that had festered there. Legends say the inhabitants of Stormreach had fallen to nightmare. Others say that the city's Giants and their elf slaves were inspired by some benevolent dream.

Thousands of years ago, the first march of the colossus came to an end when its enemies bound the pilot outside of time, locked in a permanent dream state. Now the magic that traps her has grown weak, and only a small perturbation will free her.

**Control Cylinders**. Four stone cylinders serve as the major control points for the colossus' limbs. The two on the floor
anchor the construct's legs, while the two on either wall anchor its arms. Since the left arm detached at the end of Scene 1, the cylinder on the left wall has stopped moving. Each control cylinder is an object with AC 17, 30 hit points, and vulnerability to bludgeoning damage.

Destroying a control cylinder causes the colossus to lose control of one of its limbs. Disabling the remaining arm will have no effect on the coming battle. However, disabling a leg will cause the colossus to stumble and fall. When this happens, all creatures (including the primordial giant), will fall 50 feet and take 17 (5d6) damage.

**Binding Bubble**. The Giant's prison is extremely fragile. The bubble with break if any spell of 3rd level of higher is cast in the Giant's chamber, or if one of the control cylinders is attacked, or even if it is physically touched. When that happens, move on to "Dreamscape", below. If a character uses detect magic or other spells to divine the bubble's origin or purpose, they can discover that it radiates overwhelming abjuration magic of otherworldly origin.

**Dreamscape**

When the binding bubble is broken, read or paraphrase the following:

> In an instant, your vision turns white. Where once you could hear the grinding of stone, now there is merely a gentle breeze. Where once you could smell damp and turned earth, there is only heather and fresh spring air. You find yourselves on a flat moorland far removed from the jungles around Grendu'ul.
Several yards away, a giant stands with her back to you. Her hair dances with eldritch sparks, and she wears a pair of stone gauntlets oversized even for her. She turns to face the new arrivals, and her expression betrays first hope and then anger.
"After all this time... they send slaves?"
> 

The primordial giant Kenucha has been locked in a dream state for thousands of years. She has no knowledge of the current state of the outside world, and has been driven close to madness by her solitude. In a static world where time
does not appear to pass, she has no concept of just how long she has been waiting here. Though she is confused and aggressive, she will be willing to talk for a moment. Language has no meaning in the dreamscape. All sapient creatures can understand each other.

In her last conscious moments, Kenucha had been a warrior defending her home from invasion and corruption by spirits from the extraplanar world of dreams. Her society had been responsible for arcane wonders far beyond the modern world, but the incarnate dreams known as quori proved a powerful match. Artifacts like the colossus of Grendu'ul had been expected to turn the tide and earn victory for the Giants, but Kenucha has no idea of the fate of her people.

Kenucha will be particularly hostile to elves of all varieties. Although she considers medium-sized humanoids to be figuratively and literally beneath her, the elves were raised as slaves within Kenucha's society and are thus unworthy of speaking to her, let alone rescuing her.

When it becomes clear the player characters have not specifically come to free her, she will lash out with all her power. She is quite prepared to fight to the death - it is, after all, a final release from her dream prison.

**Primordial Giant**

Kenucha can summon vast elemental powers even within the dreamscape. However, when she is reduced to less than 50% of her maximum hit point total (115/230 HP), the magic that has bound her in her timeless prison finally fails. Kenucha and the player characters are then thrown back into the real world, in the colossus' control chamber. At that point, her available lair actions change.

**Lair Actions (Dreamscape)**. The primordial giant can use lair actions in giant form only. On initiative count 20 (losing ties), the giant can take a lair action to cause one of the following effects. The giant can't use the same effect two rounds in a row.

- **Dream Rend**. Kenucha unravels the dream world in one location, releasing a burst of pure light. Each creature within 10 feet of that point must succeed on a DC 18 Constitution saving throw or be blinded until the end of its next turn.
- **Dream Image**. Kenucha replicates her image within the dream, creating two illusory duplicates as if she had cast *mirror image*. Each time a creature targets her with an attack, you roll a d20 to determine whether the attack instead targets one of her duplicates. With two duplicates, you must roll an 8 or higher to change the attack's target to a duplicate. With one duplicate, you must roll an 11 or higher. A duplicate’s AC equals 12. If an attack hits a duplicate, the duplicate is destroyed. A duplicate can be destroyed only by an attack that hits it. It ignores all other damage and effects. The effect ends when both duplicates are destroyed. A creature is unaffected by this lair action if it can’t see, if it relies on senses other than sight, such as blindsight, or if it can perceive illusions as false, as with truesight.
- **Enlarge**. Kenucha grows to double its size, as if it has cast *enlarge/reduc*e. Until the next time she uses a lair action, Kenucha has advantage on Strength checks and Strength saving throws. Her animus gauntlets also grow to match her new size. While these weapons are enlarged, her attacks with them deal 2d6 extra damage.

**Lair Actions (Colossus)**. The primordial giant can use these lair actions when she returns to the real world. On initiative count 20 (losing ties), the giant can take a lair action to cause one of the following effects. The giant can't use the same effect two rounds in a row.

- **Colossal Shift**. Kenucha directs the colossus to quickly shift its stance, throwing creatures across the room. Each creature in the control chamber that is touching the ground must succeed on a DC 18 Strength saving throw or be pushed 15 feet and knocked prone. Kenucha loses this ability when one or more of control cylinders for the colossus' legs are destroyed.
- **Self Strike**. Kenucha directs the colossus to strike itself, shaking rock from its crumbling walls. Creatures in the chamber must succeed on a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw or become restrained by debris. As an action, a creature can free themselves with a DC 18 Strength (Athletics) check. Kenucha loses this ability when the control cylinder for the colossus' remaining arm is destroyed.

### Conclusion

When Kenucha is defeated, the last mote of her power keeping the colossus moving evaporates. The construct collapses, scattering stone across the jungle floor.

The player characters are very likely to still be in the giant's control chamber as the colossus falls apart. Have everyone roll one final DC 15 Strength (Athletics) or Dexterity (Acrobatics) check to break or squeeze through a gap in the collapsing chamber wall. On failing once, a character takes 11 (2d10) bludgeoning damage. On failing twice, they become buried (which may take hours or even days to excavate).

When the debris settles, the players can take the opportunity to attempt to remove the Siberys dragonshard from the platform the Giant was standing on. This requires a DC 18 Tinker’s Tools check, or a DC 22 Dexterity or Strength check without tools, and takes an hour to complete.

### Random Encounters

| d8 | Random Encouner |
| --- | --- |
| 1 | A group of drow are seen off in the distance. They don’t approach the party, and instead run south deeper into the jungle. |
| 2 | Brontosaurus |
| 3 | Triceratops |
| 4 | 1d3 Ankylosaurus |
| 5 | 1d3 Allosaurus |
| 6 | 1d4 Pterofolk |
| 7 | 1d4 Clawfoot |
| 8 | 1d6 Mud Mephits |