#adventure #completed [[Xen’drik]]

### Background

During their invasion of Xen'drik, the quori set up bases to marshal their forces and conduct complex magical research. Few such outposts survived the war, but both the giants and House Cannith have uncovered and claimed the arcane secrets locked in such places in the long centuries since. Though rumors abound. few know that House Cannith’s discovery of such an outpost led to the creation of the modern warforged soldiers used in the last war. Fewer still suspect that the original design of the warforged did not originate with the giants, but with the quori.

### Hook(s)

When the players emerge from the Colossus (see Finding a Siberys Shard adventure), and have removed the Siberys shard from the wreckage, they see a large ruin nearby that they haven’t seen on their way to the ziggurat. The marching of the colossus has lead them slightly off course to the remains of an ancient quori outpost.

### Synopsis

- A ruined outpost is found in the jungle, including a well of magical water, an inactive runic gateway, and a large spire reminiscent of the hanbalani alta.
- Inside the spire is an original creation forge from the quori, but it’s long been destroyed. Several quorforged constructs and books outlining information from the time scatter the room as well.
- The area is used to reveal additional information about the Age of Giants, the quori of the previous age, and their early constructs.

### Quori Outpost

> The dense jungle gives way to a large clearing full of rubble and ruin. To one side, a vast rift opens up, as if titanic hands have torn the earth in two. In the center of the clearing is a tall tower spiraling high into the sky. Made of white marble, the structure looks completely intact — immune from the ravages of time that have savaged all the other ruins here.

**Keyed Locations**

1. **Colonnade**: Running up the plaza are two rows of smooth marble columns capped by large blue crystals. Many columns have fallen over the years, but those that still stand shed a faint blue light. Asa result, the entire area is bathed in shadowy illumination even on the darkest nights.
2. **Chasm**: The magic brought to bear against the quori shook this region. causing a large chasm to open up. The chasm is 80 feet deep in most areas, and the ground within 10 feet of its edge is unstable. Anyone in a square adjacent to the edge must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity save or risk falling as the ground gives way.
3. **Dream Well:** This wide, shallow well is encased in vines and fine moss, but the water is crystal clear and cool. The quori used this well to communicate with their fellows on Dal Quor. Although it no longer serves that purpose, characters who drink from the well immediately fall into a trance and can send a message to any sleeping individual they can name. This effect functions as a *dream* spell with a caster level equal to the drinker’s character level. The well can be used three times per day in this manner.
4. **Weathered Wall**: A 40-foot-tall wall once circled this entire compound, but most of it has long since collapsed. Where one section still stands, large dragonshards fused to its top glow a fierce red if any creature of the giant type comes within 500 feet. If removed from the wall, the shards shatter and lose all magical power.
5. **Gateway**: Dal Quor was coterminous to Eberron during the Age of Giants. and the quori of this settlement built a permanent gateway to the plane at this spot. Should Dal Quor ever become coterminous again. this gate would resume functioning. In its current state, the gate radiates strong conjuration magic but does little else. Should the quori or their agents discover this relic, they would be very interested in finding away to reactivate it.
6. **Spire of Creation**: This white tower rises from the center of the ruins, its smooth marble walls untouched by time. The only entrance is high up, reached by a ramp that spirals along the outside of the ever-narrowing tower. The spire walls have 40 HP and gradually repair any damage taken (although this phenomenon is too slow to be observed). Characters touching the tower hear a strange buzzing, as if the voices of the past are trying to speak to them.
7. **Sealed Door**: The only entrance into the tower is well over 100 feet above the forest floor. The lock on this door opens only to the touch of a quori or with a successful DC 20 Thieves Tools check. A permanent *magic mouth* placed on the door warns all those who approach that the tower is the property of House Cannith and is not to be disturbed.
8. **8/9. Creation Forge** (The Drop removed, the Forge is just inside the door): Made of pure white marble and streaked with veins of glowing blue, the creation forge pulses with magical energy. Floating above the large marble base is a column of silver nearly 100 feet tall, covered in arcane runes that pulse in time with the rest of the forge. The quori used forges such as this to create the original warforged (aka Quorforged), warforged components, and minor artifacts. Though it still pulses with arcane power, this forge’s inner workings were destroyed by the cataclysm that ended the quori invasion. House Cannith explored this place but found nothing of use, sealing it more as a matter of course than to protect any great secrets. However, the Cannith expedition didn’t clear out the outpost and left several things behind.

**The Forge**

On the ground sit two warforged-like creatures (quorforged) that look almost exactly like Prism, but in different colors. A DC 12 Investigation check reveals that they are totally non-operational, but definitely made of the same material as Prism. A DC 18 Investigation check reveals a access door on the chest. If the door is opened, then a Docent is revealed, which activates immediately. This is Shira the docent, who can also reveal any information about the quorforged or quori, but in conversation form.

Several notebooks are scattered on tables around the room, written in quori as indicated by the cover. If read, a History check can reveal any appropriate amount of lore about the quorforged.

[The Quorforged and the Warforged](https://www.notion.so/The-Quorforged-and-the-Warforged-1a555c3a1eba4b008da54515f30f77c4)

### Conclusion

The only intent of this area is to reveal the lore about the quorforged, and the fact that Prism is clearly the ancient version of the warforged and not actually one of the more modern ones created by Cannith. This area can also be used to give information about the ancient quori and the previous age, including how they’re vastly different from the current age.
