#adventure #completed [[Upper Dura]] [[Cecilia McNab]] [[Keye]]

**Ceremony Location**: Upper Dura, Hope's Peak, The Citadel of the Sun
**Reception Location**: Olladra’s Arms (next door to the temple)
**Date**: 12 Aryth, 999 YK
**Priest**: Aerela Tal (LG female half-elf adept 12)

**Invitation**
> Cecelia McNab and Keye request your presence at the ceremony of their marriage.
> 
> The Citadel of the Sun, Hope's Peak, Upper Dura, Sharn
> 
> 12 Aryth, 999 YK
> 
> Reception to follow at Olladra’s Arms. Offerings to Olladra encouraged but not required.

### Ceremony

The couple processes down the aisle while the crowd stands. They approach and stand in front of an alter with the symbols of the nine Sovereigns. A priest walks down the aisle and first addresses the crowd:

> Priest: As is the world, so are the gods.
> Crowd Response: As are the gods, so is the world.

The priest asks the crowd to please be seated, and to prepare their offerings, and then turns to the couple and starts the ceremony.

> Oh, generous Host, we thank you for bringing these people together on this day to celebrate the union of these two individuals.

> If civilization is the house of the mortal races, and Aureon’s laws are the foundation, Boldrei is the walls and roof. The god of community, home, and hearth, she is everything positive about society itself: its support and protection, its comforts and customs. May her favor fall on this marriage, as her marriage to Aureon remains forever strong.
> But this particular couple may draw more inspiration from the one who blesses and curses on a whim, the one worshipped by gamblers and rogues alike. Olladra, the Sovereign of Feast and Fortune, became the wife of fellow Sovereign Onatar, the god of Fire and Forge, in the first ever marriage ceremony. We ask for their blessing on this day, so that this union may be as unending as the first.

Rings/symbols are exchanged at this point during the vows:

> Cecelia: do you, in Aureon's name, promise to love, cherish, honor, and be faithful to your partner, until you pass from this world into Dolurrh?

> Keye: do you, in Aureon's name, promise to love, cherish, honor, and be faithful to your partner, until you pass from this world into Dolurrh?

> May Aureon and Boldrei bring community and structure; may Arawai bring love and potential for new life; may Balinor bring strength and sacrifice; may Dol Arrah bring honor and protection; may Dol Dorn bring bravery and prowess; may Kol Korran bring wealth and charm; and may Olladra and Onatar bring feast and fortune. You have committed to each other in the eyes of the world and the gods; as the Host are both nine and one, so have you become both two and one.
> 

The priest turns and addresses the crowd.

> As you present your offerings, I present to you the married couple!

During the ceremony, the guests burn offerings in small ceramic vessels etched with the Celestial Crown (Octogram). Olladra accepts any valuables but looks more favorably on sacrifices of items acquired through luck, such as gambling winnings or “found money.”